		Indiana Jones And The Temple Of Doom

GETTING STARTED

What You Need

	Commodore 64 or 128; Atari 520ST, 1040St, Mega; Amiga 500, 1000, 
	or 2000; Apple IIe/IIc/IIGS, 128K minimum; or IBM PC/XT/AT, Tandy
	1000/3000, or 100% IBM compatible computer.

	Color Monitor or TV

	Single disk drive

	Joystick (Atari ST, Amiga, Apple and IBM - recommended, Commodore -
	required)

	Color or Enhanced Graphics Adaptor (IBM only)

Loading Instructions:

Commodore

Note:  If you use a fast load cartridge and experience problems loading the
program, turn off the computer and disk drive, remove the disk from the
disk drive, remove the fast load cartridge, and then follow the
instructions to load the program.  With no cartridge attached, the program
should load normally.

1. Make sure the joystick is plugged into Port 2 of your computer.

2. Turn on your monitor or TV, the disk drive and the computer.

3. Insert the Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom disk, label side up,
   into the disk drive and close the drive door.

4. Type LOAD"*",8,1 and press RETURN.  The game will load into your
   computer's memory.

Atari ST

1. If you are using a joystick, make sure that it is plugged into Port 1 of
   your computer.

2. Insert the Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom disk into the disk
   drive.

3. Turn on your disk drive, monitor or TV, and computer.

4. The program will load automatically.

Amiga
Using Kickstart 1.2

1. If you are using a joystick, make sure that it is plugged into Port 2
   of your computer.

2. Insert the Kickstart 1.2 disk into the disk drive.

3. Turn on your monitor or TV, and computer.

4. At the Workbench prompt, insert the Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom
   disk into the disk drive.

5. The program will load automatically.

Apple

1. If you are using a joystick, make sure that it is plugged into the game
   port of your computer.

2. Insert the Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom disk, label side up,
   into the disk drive.

3. Turn on the monitor and computer.

4. The program will load automatically.

IBM
Using DOS 2.1 or higher

1. If you are using a joystick make sure it is plugged into the game port
   of your computer.

2. Insert a DOS disk into Drive A and close the drive door.

3. Turn on the monitor and computer.

4. Respond to the date and time prompts.

5. At the A> prompt, remove the DOS disk and insert the Indiana Jones and
   the Temple of Doom disk, label side up, into the drive.

6. At the A> prompt, type INDY and press ENTER.  The program will load 
   into your computer's memory.  Please note:  If you have an EGA computer,
   the program will automatically load the EGA version; and if you have
   CGA, the program will load the CGA version.  If you have EGA and would
   like to play the game in CGA, type INDY C for the loading command.

Installing Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom on a Hard Disk

After you complete the procedure outlined below, Indiana Jones and the
Temple of Doom will run entirely from your hard disk; you will not need to
use the floppy Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom disk.  You cannot copy
the files directly to your hard disk.  The installation will create a
sub-directory on the hard disk and copy all relevant files to it.  Once
Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom has been copied to a hard disk, your
floppy disk won't generate any more hard disk copies.  However, you can
transfer the hard disk installation capability back to your floppy disks
from the hard disk by following the procedures given in the section
entitled "Uninstalling Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom From A Hard
Disk Drive."  Warning:  Do NOT attempt to install Indiana Jones and the
Temple of Doom from a 1 megabyte 5.25" floppy disk drive.  During
installation, the disk is being written to and files may be corrupted if
the program is installed from a 1 megabyte 5.25" floppy disk drive. 

Warning: Before you attempt either to make an archival backup of your hard
disk, or to run a hard disk "optimization" or "defragmenting" program after
having installed Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom on the hard disk,
first make sure that you follow the instructions to uninstall Indiana Jones
and the Temple of Doom.  If you don't, the program will no longer be
executable from the hard disk, and you won't be able to re-install the
program.  After you make the backup or run the optimization program, follow
the installation instructions given below to re-install the program on your
hard disk.  The instructions for hard disk installation are as follows:

1. Boot the system, if necessary, and go to the hard disk directory to 
   which you would like to copy Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom, this
   may be C, D, E, or F.

2. Insert Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom, label side up, into the
   disk drive and close the drive door; this may be either Drive A or B.

3. At the hard disk prompt, type A:INSTALL, and press Enter.  Follow the
   on-screen prompts to set up the hard disk installation.

4. You will be prompted to enter the letter of the disk drive in which
   Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom is located.

5. You will then enter the letter of the hard disk drive to which you will
   be installing the program (either C, D, E, or F).

6. The program will create a sub-directory on the hard disk named INDY.  If
   you would like to use a different name for the sub-directory, you will
   be able to enter the name you have selected.

7. You will then be prompted to proceed with the hard disk installation by
   pressing Y to continue.  If you type N, the installation will be
   aborted, and you will return to the hard disk prompt.

8. When the installation is complete, the system must be rebooted.  To
   reboot, press the Ctrl, Alt, and Del keys at the same time.  To run
   Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom from the hard disk after rebooting,
   type CD\NAME, where NAME is the new directory name, and press Enter. 
   Then follow the loading instructions listed above.

Uninstalling Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom From A Hard Disk Drive

1. Boot the system, if necessary, and insert Indiana Jones and the Temple
   of Doom in Drive A or B.

2. At the A> or B> prompt, type INSTALL U and press Enter.

3. Follow the on-screen prompts for uninstalling Indiana Jones and the
   Temple of Doom from your hard disk.

4. When the process is complete, Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom will
   no longer be executable from the hard disk.  You may now delete the 
   files from your hard disk.  To re-install Indiana Jones and the Temple
   of Doom on a hard disk, follow the hard disk installation instructions
   already given.

Game Controls

IBM users note:  Press F2 to toggle between joystick and keyboard control. 
The option you select will be listed on the title screen.

Joystick - Move the joystick to the right, left, up or down.  Press the
fire button to crack the whip in the direction you are facing.

Keyboard - ST & Amiga users: Q = up, A = Down, O = Left, and P = Right. 
IBM users: Use the numeric keypad to control Indy's movements.  Press the
Spacebar to crack the whip in the direction you are facing.

Game Options

Number of Players - Atari ST, Amiga, and IBM users can select either a one-
or two-player game by pressing the F1 key.  The Commodore and Apple
versions allow for only one player.

Sound On/Off - Atari ST and Amiga users can toggle the music on and off by
pressing F2.  IBM users press F3 to toggle music on and off.  Commodore and
Apple users can adjust the volume on the monitor or TV.

Game Difficulty - In the Atari ST, Amiga, and IBM versions, the game begins
with Indiana Jones in front of three entrances:  to the left is the Easy
Route, to the right is the Medium Route and straight ahead is the Hard
Route.  Each Route goes in the same direction, but the hazards you face are
different and points scored increase with the difficulty of the route.  In
the Commodore and Apple versions you will not be able to select difficulty
levels, however the game will become more difficult the longer you play.

IBM Features - Press F2 to toggle between joystick and keyboard control. 
Quit the game by pressing F4.

PLAYING THE GAME

While on an archeological expedition, Indiana Jones stumbles across the
remote village of Mayapore in India.  Following the theft of the powerful
Sankara Stone which once protected the village and its people, the town lay
in ruin and its children are mysteriously missing.  Indy discovers the
enslaved children are being held captive in the evil Pankot Palace - the
home of the Maharajah.  Mola Ram, the ruthless High Priest, has forced the
children to mine for precious gems and the other missing Sankara Stones.

Indy's adventure begins once he enters the Mine Caverns below the palace
where he must free the imprisoned children and escape the Thugee guards. 
Upon reaching the mine tunnel entrance, indy hurls down a treacherous
course in a rickety mine car, leading him to the Temple of Doom.  Once in
the Temple, he must retrieve the Sankara Stones encircled by a firey lava
pit.  After recovering all three Stones, Indy must then escape from the
Temple by crossing a perilous rope bridge guarded by the fireball-throwing
Mola Ram.

The Game Levels

There are three levels in the game: the Mine Caverns, the Mine Tunnels and
the Temple of Doom.  Proceed through the first two levels to reach the
Temple of Doom, where you must retrieve a Sankara Stone.  After you have
the stone, a door will open that will take you back to the first level. 
Proceed through all the levels again to recover another stone.  After
recovering all three stones, make your escape over the bridge.  A "bonus
round" is awarded if you escape successfully.

Level 1 - The Mine Caverns

Indy's mission is to work his way through the maze-like Caverns and find
the entrance to the Mine Tunnels.  To get there he must climb up and down
ladders and swing from one ledge to anoter by wrapping the whip around the
swinging posts.  Indy also faces a variety of perils while on his journey;
bats and snakes can make the going rough.  An army of Thuggee guards awaits
Indy at every turn.  Use the whip to kill sankes and bats, and to stun the
Thuggee guards.  On the Medium and Hard Routes, watch out for spikes that
rise up from the ground.  Free the imprisioned children by whipping the
locks off their cages.  Watch out for Mola Ram, the evil High Priest; he
can appear suddenly and send a fireball hurling towards Indy.  After
recovering a stone, you will be transported back to this level, where
conveyor belts can move you along quickly.  Watch out though, sometimes
they move too quickly, or in the wrong direction!  On your third pass
through the Mine Caverns, you'll have to work your way across rickety
bridges teetering over firey lava pits.  Commodore and Apply users please
note:  you will face the conveyor belts the first time through the Mine
Caverns.

Level 2 - The Mine Tunnels

As Indy races down the tracks, he must fight off Thuggee guards while
watching out for oil drums, missing tracks and other hazards.  Tilt the
mine car to the left or right to avoid the hazards on the rails or to
change tracks when necessary.  Pull back on the joystick to slow down the
mine car.  Don't make any wrong turns or Indy will never make it to the
Temple of Doom.

Level 3 - The Temple of Doom

In the Temple of Doom, Indy has to recover the Sankara Stone located in
front of the statue of Kali, the four-armed goddess of death.  The statue
is on a small island completely surrounded by molten lava.  Maneuver Indy
around the firey lava pit to reach the trap door that opens and closes.  To
get the stone, Inday must stand over the trap door while it is closed. 
Time his run so that he can grab the stone and escape to safety.  After he
has recovered all three stones, he must make his escape over a rope bridge.
 Watch out though!  Old Mola Ram will try to keep Indy from crossing the
bridge by hurling fireballs.

The Scoreboard

The Scoreboard for both players is located on the right-hand side of the
screen.  The Scoreboard lists points earned, number of children saved,
number of stones recovered and number of lives remaining.  Extra lives can
be earned for each 10,000 points scored.  Points are scored for killing
snakes and bats, stunning Thuggee guards, rescuing children, and
successfully completing a level.

============================================================================
         DOCS PROVIDED BY  -+*+-THE SOUTHERN STAR-+*+- for M.A.A.D.                                                               
============================================================================
