
            ________  ________  ________  ____  ________  ________
           _)       \_)       \_)       \_)   \_)       \_)       \
  __ ____ /___/     /   /_____/\  /     /     /   /     /   /     /
 /_//___// \___    /   /     /CT\/     /     /   /     /   /     /
      ::/___/     /___      /:::/     /_____/___      /___/     /___ __
       :T:::\____/::::\____/::::\____/::::::::::\____/::::\____//__//_/
       :|::::::::::  ::::::::  ::::::::        ::::::::  :::::::T::::
       :|:                                                     :|:
        |             Codetapper of Action presents             |
        |                                                       |
        |                                                       |
        |                International 3D Tennis!               |
        |                                                       |
        |     .                                           .     |
        | ..::                                             ::.. |
        | :.:        Another fine Action production!        :.: |
        l______/\  ___________________________________  /\______|
                 \/                                   \/


INTRODUCTION
------------
Nine months of research went into developing the most playable and most
realistic method of game control yet devised for a computer tennis game.
Combined with this is an accurate simulation of a season of professional
tennis tournaments.

The revolutionary 3D system allows realistic player movement and the
ability to change the camera angle from which the game is viewed.  Computer
assistance of your movement will have you playing the game within seconds,
while the skill levels provide a flexibility of control that take months to
master.

International Tennis can be played in three ways:

First, as a simple one or two player game in which you practice playing
either a friend or a computer-controlled opponent.

Secondly, when you feel up to the challenge you can enter a tournament,
playing, the ultimate challenge.  If you feel really confident then prove
yourself in a full season of International Tennis tournaments.

Thirdly, as a complete season, allowing you to make a living in a series of
tournaments.  Every few weeks you are offered a selection of tournaments to
enter; remember that the higher the prize money, the stiffer the
competition will be.


THE MENU SYSTEM
---------------
International Tennis menus are simple to operate.  Move the highlight
around the screen with the joystick to choose the item that you are
interested in.  Press fire on a coloured title such as PLAY MATCH or EXIT
will do just that, whereas pressing fire on a white option such as SKILL
LEVEL will change its setting.


LESSON ONE: PLAYING THE GAME FOR THE FIRST TIME
-----------------------------------------------
From the main menu select 1 PLAYER and press fire.  On the next screen
ignore all the options for now and press fire on PLAY MATCH.  Press fire
twice more to get past the pre-match panorama and the scoreboard.

On this 1 PLAYER game you control the BLACK PLAYER and the computer
controls the WHITE PLAYER.  You are on AMATEUR skill level, the easiest to
control.

On the first game you are serving; press fire to hit the ball.  When the
computer serves, it will do so automatically.

    Run Towards Net                         Run Away From Net

          \|/                                     \|/
    Left --|-- Right                        Left --|-- Right
          /|\                                     /|\

    Run Away From Net                        Run Towards Net

          _______                                  _*_____
         /       \                                //|\    \
        /         \                              / / \     \
       /___________\          These Are         /___________\
      |_____________|    <-- Supposed To -->   |_____________|
     /               \        Be Tennis       /               \
    /           _*_   \        Courts!       /                 \
   /             |     \                    /                   \
  /_____________/_\_____\                  /_____________________\

 Players Facing Away From Camera         Players Facing Towards Camera

You have full joystick control over your player's movement until your
opponent hits the ball.  The computer then automatically lines your player
up the ball's trajectory.  You can still move towards and away from the
net, but you should always be able to return the shot.  This is designed to
make the game easy to learn and give you the best possible gameplay.

When the ball is within range, your player will flash.  This is your cue to
press fire and hit the ball.  You may miss to start with, but you will soon
learn to use the flashing to time your shots.

This is all you need to play some games, although you may find yourself
thrashed.  Press the camera keys (F1 to F10) to view the game from
different camera angles.


LESSON TWO: BALL CONTROL
------------------------
You will notice that the computer automatically selects forehand, backhand,
smash or lob for your player, depending on the height and position of the
ball.

The position of your joystick when the ball hits your bat determines where
you aim the shot in your opponents half:

                                   2
                                1  |  3
          _______                \ | /               _______
         / 1 2 3 \             4---5---6            /       \
        /_4  5  6 \              / | \             /         \
       /_7___8___9_\            7  |  9           /___________\
      |_____________|              8             |_____________|
     /               \                          /  1    2    3  \
    /                 \                        /  4     5     6  \
   /                   \                      /  7      8      9  \
  /_____________________\                    /_____________________\

Try aiming the ball so your opponent really has to run to reach it, but be
careful not to hit it out!


A GUIDE TO SKILL LEVELS
-----------------------
On the pre-match menu screen you can alter the skill level (AM,SP,PRO,ACE)
next to your name before pressing on PLAY MATCH.  If you are playing
already press P then Q to quit back ti this point.

The four skill levels are AMATEUR (AM), SEMI-PRO (SP), PRO and ACE and give
you different levels of control over your player.  SEMI-PRO is the same as
AMATEUR (which you have been playing so far) but has a controllable service
called SUPERSERVE.  PRO is the same as SEMI-PRO but without the flashing
feature; its up to you to get the timing correct!

ACE is for real masters; its PRO with advanced SUPASPIN facility, giving
you control over the ball spin.

SUMMARY
-------
                        FLASHING       SUPASERVE       SUPASPIN
Amateur                    *
Semi-Professional          *               *
Professional                               *
Ace                                        *              *

Your computer opponent has a skill level too, from being a soft touch at 1 to
an almost unbeatable 15.  You can alter this on the same screen as you change
your own skill level.


LESSON THREE: CONTROLLING YOUR SERVICE
--------------------------------------
You will need to be on the SEMI-PRO skill level or higher to make use of
the SUPASERVE facility.  With it you can control both the power and the aim
of the service.

The length of time you hold the fire button pressed determines the power of
the shot.  Be careful not to smash it out of the court!  The position of
the joystick when you press fire controls your aim within the opponent's
service area.

          _______                1  2  3               _*_____
         /123    \                \ | /               //|\    \
        /4 56     \             4---5---6            / / \     \
       /7 8 9______\              / | \             /___________\
      |_____________|            7  8  9           |_____________|
     /               \                            /         1 2 3 \
    /             _*_ \                          /           4 5 6 \
   /               |   \                        /             7 8 9 \
  /_______________/_\___\                      /_____________________\


LESSON FOUR: BALL SPIN
----------------------
Only ACE players can make use of SUPASPIN; once this is mastered you will
be able to enter any tournament in the world.

After playing your shot, press the fire button a second time and move the
joystick forward or backward to add topspin or backspin respectively.  You
must do this quickly before the ball touches the ground or your opponents
racket.

                            These Are Supposed
                <--         To Be Tennis Balls      -->
                 ___                 |             ___
                /   \               / \           /   \
               |     |  <---      <-   ->        |     |  <---
                \___/                             \___/

                   -->                           <--

      Topspin causes the ball to            Backspin causes the ball to
      bounce fast and low on                bounce high and slow on
      contact with the ground.              contact with the ground.


SCORING
-------
For details of scoring see the section THE RULES OF TENNIS.

While playing, the scores for the current game are displayed on the left of
the screen.  The score of the player who is serving is printed first, and
the player's colour indicated by an arrow.

On the top right any other calls by the umpire are listed, such as OUT,
FAULT and so on.  On the AMIGA these are read out by the voice of a real
wimbledon umpire, John Relf.


THE SCOREBOARD
--------------

            Time Of Day ___  Elapsed Time Since Game Started
                           |                  |
      _____________________|__________________|_________________
     |                   --|----          ----|--               |
     |                  | 01.18 | PALACE | 00.07 |  --------------- Look At
     |                   -------          -------  |   |   |    |     KEY
     |  ---- ---- ---- ----  -----------------  ---| --|- -|--  |
     | |    |    |    |    ||                 || AA | BB | CC | |
     | |    |    |    |    ||  |> H A R E.    ||    |    |    | |
     |  ---- ---- ---- ---- |  |     V        | ---- ---- ----  |
     | |    |    |    |    ||  | Y A T E S <| ||    |    |    | |
     | |    |    |    |    ||  |            | ||    |    |    | |
     |  -|-- -|-- -|-- -|--  --|------------|-  ---- ---- ----  |
      ---|----|----|----|------|------------|-------------------
   ______|    |    |    |      |            |
  |           |    |    |      |  Player 2 Name
 Number Of   2nd  3rd  4th     Player 1 Name
 Games Won   Set  Set  Set   (Dot Indicates Next
  1st Set                      Player To Serve)

  KEY

  AA - Number Of Sets Won In Match
  BB - Number Of Games Won In Current Set
  CC - Score Of Current Game

Press fire to exit the scoreboard at any time.

CAMERA ANGLES
-------------
Press F1 to F10 switches to one of the ten available camera angles.  On the
AMIGA you can customise camera angle 10.  While in pause mode you can use
the joystick to spin and zoom in on the court.  When you restart, this will
become angle 10 and can be reselected later with key F10.


MAIN MENU OPTIONS
-----------------
The main menu options are:

                        1 PLAYER
                        2 PLAYER
                       TOURNAMENT
                         SEASON
                          DEMO

1 PLAYER is the game explained so far.  You can alter your own skill level,
the computer player's skill level and the type of playing surface
(GRASS,CLAY,CEMENT or CARPET).  You can also enter your name by moving up
to PLAYER 1 and using the delete key.  Press fire or press RETURN when you
have finished typing.  You can also change the computer's name from the
rather anonymous CPU.

2 PLAYER is almost the same as 1 PLAYER but two humans can play each other.
You will need a second joystick for this.  The computer will ask one of the
players to press fire to serve first; it is important that the right player
does this, so that the computer knows who is using which joystick!

TOURNAMENT:  When you feel confident about your tennis skills you can try
entering a real tournament.  All the statistics, court surfaces, stadium
types, dates and prizes of the tournaments are based on their real life
counterparts.  Never before has computer tennis been so realistic.

SEASON:  Re-enact a year in the life of a top class tennis pro.  Try to
earn as much money as possible over a year of tennis tournaments.

DEMO:  Watch two random computer players have a game.  The camera angle
changes automatically every few shots.  To get back to the main menu press
fire (or type P) to pause the demo, then press Q to quit.


TOURNAMENT
----------
Are you ready to enter a tournament?  International Tennis simulates
seventy two real life tournaments of varying prestige, difficulty and
prizes.  Select TOURNAMENT from the main menu.

TENNIS TOURNAMENT PLAYER ENTRY:  On this screen you can enter your name,
skill level and the length of matches you wish to play.  Tennis matches can
be one, three, five sets in length.  Selecting the REAL OPTION give you the
number of sets per match that the tournament has in real life.  When you
are ready, press fire on SELECT TOURNAMENT.

SELECT TOURNAMENT:  This gives you access to all the tournaments, eight at
a time.  If you can't see the one you want select PREVIOUS or NEXT to move
to another page.  The total prize money is displayed next to each
tournament.  When you have decided on one, use the joystick to move to it
and press fire.

TOURNAMENT SCREEN:  This shows the tournament, its location on the world
map, total prize money, the number of rounds you will have to enter, the
length of matches and the playing surface.  MONEY BREAKDOWN gives a more
detailed analysis of the prize money and RESELECT TOURNAMENT allows you to
change your mind.

When you feel ready, select ENTER TOURNAMENT and meet your first opponent.
You will be entered into each round until you are knocked out or you win
the whole tournament.


SEASON
------
A whole season of International Tennis allows you to make a living in a
series of tournaments.  Every few weeks you are offered a selection of
tournaments to enter; remember that the higher the prize money, the stiffer
the competition will be.  From the main menu select SEASON.

TENNIS SEASON PLAYER ENTRY:  This screen allows you to enter your name,
skill level and preferred lengths of matches in the same way as for a
single tournament.  START NEW YEAR commences a brand new season; select
CONTINUE SEASON if you have already started.

The next screen shows you the tournaments currently available.  Select one
to enter and you will play through it exactly as before.  When the
tournament is over you will return to this screen.

Some prestigous tournaments are unavailable to players with low skill
levels and you will not be able to select these.  So of you fancy a go at
wimbledon you will need to raise your skill level on the PROGRESS REPORT
screen first.

The PROGRESS REPORT screen allows you to check your performance since the
beginning of the year, and to keep a track of your earnings.  It also
allows you to LOAD or SAVE your progress to disk.  See the section SAVING
AND LOADING SEASONS for details.


THE RULES OF TENNIS
-------------------
1.  In each game, a player winning their first, second and third point will
have a score of 15, 30 and 40 respectively.  Gaining a fourth point will
normally win the game unless both players have a score of 40:  a situation
called deuce.

2.  When the score is deuce, the next player to win a point is said to have
an advantage.  If he or she wins another, they have won the game.  If
however the other player wins, the score is back to deuce.  In other words
the first player to win two consecutive points after deuce takes the game.

3.  The player who first wins six games ins the set, but he or she must do
so by a margin of at least two games.  A score of six games to five will
mean that the set is extended until one player has achieved a lead of two
games.  In addition, if the score reaches six games all and the set is not
the final one of the match, then the tie-break rule is invoked.

4.  In a tie-break, the first player to score at least seven points and
achieve a lead of a least two points is the winner.  Numerical scoring is
used in a tie-break.  The player who would have been serving takes the
first service, and then the service alternates every two points.  Players
change ends every six points during the tie-break.

5.  In a one set match, the player who wins the set also wins the match.
In a three set match the first player to win two sets wins the match.  In a
five set match the first player to win three sets is the winner.

6.  If a player's service hits the net but is still in, this is known as
LET; he or she is allowed another attempt.  If the ball goes out on a
service or hits the net and doesn't go over, then the player is allowed
only one further attempt.


KEYBOARD CONTROLS
-----------------
S           View scoreboard (only available between points)
P           Pause game (press fire or R to restart)
Q           Quit game (while in pause mode)
F1 - F10    Change camera angle


JOYSTICK CONTROLS
-----------------
Fire to return shot, joystick to aim shot.  Joystick to move player before
opponent hits ball.

Fire to serve, unless SUPASERVE is in use.  For a SUPASERVE, fire to
determine power, joystick to aim.

When using SUPASPIN, press fire a second time after you have hit the ball
and before it touches the ground.  Joystick forward or back gives topspin
or backspin.


SAVING AND LOADING SEASONS
--------------------------
Your progress in the season may be saved to disk, so that you can later
carry on from where you left off.

You will need a blank, formatted disk to save onto.  You should refer to
your computer manual for details of how to format a disk.  This must be
done before you load International Tennis.

Do not try to save sessions onto your International Tennis Disk!

SAVE:  From the PROGRESS REPORT screen, select SAVE.  You should then type
a filename and press RETURN.  Keep a careful note of the filename.

LOAD:  When you wish to continue the season in a later session, load
International Tennis and go to the PROGRESS REPORT screen.  Insert your
disk that you have saved your season onto.  Select LOAD, type in the
filename you saved it under and press RETURN.

If the season doesn't appear to load, then you are probably using the wrong
filename.
