				W A T C H E R S		    [FIXED BY [RYGAR]

                            King's Quest V Hint Book

                                  Introduction
                                  ------------

         Welcome to King's Quest V: "Absence Makes the Heart Go Yonder."

King's Quest V continues with the saga of the King Graham family who reside
in the Kingdom of Daverntry.  In "Absence Makes the Heart Go Yonder," King
Graham must rescue his kidnapped family from the clutches of an evil wizrd,
Mordack, who has whisked them and their castle to a faraway land in revenge
for his brother, the wizard Manannan, who had suffered a humiliating defeat at
the hands of Graham's son, Alexander (as seen in King's Quest III: To Heir is
Human.").

With the magical help of a know-it-all owl by the name of Cedric, Graham is
transported to the land of Serenia where he is introduced to Cedric's kind,but
doddering, employer, the wizard Crispin. Crispin, being a bit out of practice,
can only offer Graham limited help; an old wand, the ability to converse with
animals,and his owl friend Cedric to guide Graham to Mordacks castle where his
family is held captive.

From Crispin's house, Graham and Cedric set off on a perilous mission to cross
the great mountains edging Serenia, and from the other side find their way to
Mordack's island stronghold.  Will they survive the dangers of the mountains?
Will they be able to locate the evil wizard's island in the vast ocean on the
other side?  Will Graham discover the reason for his family's abduction?  And
the biggest question of all: will Graham be able to overcome the powerful
Mordack and bring his family home safely?

This is indeed a dangerous quest and the two companions are going to need all
the help they can get!  So put on your adventurer's hat and supply Graham and
Cedric with all the aid and encouragement that you can muster to bring them
all home safely.

To play an adventure game is to enter a world of fantasy where YOU can control
the main hero or heroine.  You can pretend to be King Graham.  You will guide
him. You will think for him. He will be totally dependent on your actions and
decisions.  You can bring him to a successful conclusion.  But, if you are not
careful...you can also cause his unhappy death.

As Graham, throughout the game, you will encounter obstacles and puzzles
designed to thrawt you.  Many times you may feel that all you need is a little
hint in the right direction to get you going again.  Other times a puzzle may
have you so confounded that you require the outright answer!  Hopefully, if
you're stumped, this hint book will put you back on track again.


                             HOW TO USE A HINT BOOK
                             ----------------------
If you feel you're stuck,look for a question that most resembles your problem.
The hints usually progress, from top to bottom, from a mere hint or "nudge" to
an outright answer to the problem.  To uncover a reply to a question, simply
place the see-through red "adventure window" over the first answer. Seemingly
by magic it will appear!  I feel it's best to solve adventure games without
looking at too many answers.  At first, try to get by on just a small hint
(the first answer.)  ONLY if you're really stumped should you go for the
absolute answer in the series).


                           HOW NOT TO USE A HINT BOOK
                           --------------------------

I have NOT created this book with the intention that you should sit down and
read it through before playing the game.  Rather, the opposite is true.  I
would feel most proud to know that you actually played and solved the game
WITHOUT ever looking at this book!  That would show great integrity and
perseverance on your part. If you must have help, read only those hints
pertaining to your particular problem.


                       If You've Finished King's Quest V:
                       ----------------------------------

If you've "won"the game and your score was not the maximum (260),I'm sure that
we can entice you to play again to better your score.  If you did not receive
the maximum score, there are things you did not do or see. Start the game over
from the beginning.  Be more observant.  Try to "get" everything you can.  In
some situations, try doing things differently that you did before.

I've included a section toward the end of this book called After the End of
the Game. Do NOT read this section unless you feel you've tried everything and
cannot seem to obtain the maximum score of 260.  This section will tell you
which items you might not have found, things you might not have done, or
alternate ways of doing things. Again, do NOT treat this section lightly. To
see it too soon could ruin the game for you.

If you have enjoyed this game, I'm sure that you will like King's Quest V's
predecessors: King's Quest I, II, III, and IV. Good luck on your adventure,and
I truly hope you enjoy King's Quest V!

                                             Roberta Williams


             The World of King's Quest: A Brief History of Daventry
             ------------------------------------------------------

Before we start with the real reason for this book, namely the hints to King's
Quest V, allow me to give you some background on King Graham, his family, and
how they came to rule the Kingdom of Daventry.It all began one stormy night in
a small log cabin where this fantastic idea struck me...no, no, just kidding!

Actually, in early 1983 a big company called IBM contacted my husband Ken
Williams, President of Sierra On-Line, to have us design and program an
adventure game for their then top-secret computer, the PC Junior.  They wanted
a game that would show off its sixteen colors,its three voiced sound,and would
take advantage of its 128k of memory.  It had to have colorful graphics,
animation, music, and sound effects, and, even more...it had to be done within
a year to coincide with the PC Junior's roll-out date!

My wonderful, loving husband came to yours truly with this "plum" project.  He
was very excited about it; I was very nervous.  Imagine having to come up with a
game that could help make or break IBM's new home computer...and possibly your
own fledging software company as well! It was a huge task. I immediately set
to work trying to come up with ideas as I only had a week or two to think of
something. As a young girl, I had a passion for fairy tales, reading them over
and over again, and it was to this old interest that I turned in my desperate
hour.  And so...the land of Daventry was born.


                     King's Quest I: "Quest for the Crown":
                     --------------------------------------

I came up with a character called Sir Graham,who lived in the enchanted land
of Daventry. He was the favored knight of Daventry's monarch, King Edward the
Benevolent. As King Edward was getting on in years,was in poor health, and had
no heirs,he decided to call for his favorite knight one fine spring day with a
special pronouncement. He informed Sir Graham of his dilemma of having no
heirs, and thus no one to replace him should he die, and which in his weakened
condition could be soon.He told of three treasures belonging to the Kingdom of
Daventry, which had been stolen in times past by some less than agreeable
characters: a magic mirror, which foretold the future; a magic chest,
perpetually filled with gold coins; and a magic shield,which would protect its
bearer from any harm. But since the disappearance of these treasures, Sir
Graham was informed,Daventry has weakened, and may soon crumble and die along
with its old monarch.

This was terrible news indeed, but King Edward had a solution to his problems:
if Sir Graham could find, and return, the three lost treasures of Daventry, he
would be crowned king after King Edward's death.Saddened by the thought of the
old king's death, but heartened by the possiblity of helping Daventry, Sir
Graham bravely set out to recover the stolen treasures.  After various
adventures and altercations, Graham successfully retrieved the three treasures
and brought them back in triumph to his king.  Soon thereafter, though, King
Edward died and Sir Graham was indeed crowned King of Daventry.


                    King's Quest II: "Romancing the Throne":
                    ----------------------------------------
Several years later, King Graham being popular and respected, and Daventry
having regained its peacefulness and prosperity, the future seemed bright
indeed.  There was one small problem, however; King Graham was very lonely. He
wished for a wife to bring him love and happiness. He wished for heirs for his
kingdom.  But there didn't seem to be a suitable candidate in the immediate
Daventry area.  What to do?!

One day,while gazing into the magic mirror hanging on the wall near his throne
King Graham happened to see a vision of a beautiful girl imprisoned within a
quartz tower in the faraway land of Kolyma.Her lovely face captivated him, her
plight intrigued him, and her obvious courage under such dire circumstances
attracted him.  She seemed to be looking at him, calling for him.  King Graham
was impelled to go to her; to rescue her from her prison.  Would she love him?
Would she consent to be his queen?  He didn't know the answer to those
questions, but he had to try nevertheless.

King Graham subsequently went on a journey to the land of Kolyma wherein he
disovered a door standing up all by itself in mid-air, at the foot of the
mountain range.  Curiously he studied it.  It just looked like a plain door,
leading to nowhere.  He walked around to the back of it. Nothing there but the
back of the door.  He tried opening it.  It was locked. Just then he noticed
an inscription written on the door.  The inscription suggested that this could
be a magic door, and offered a clue to where a possible key could be found.
Thus enlightened, King Graham set out to search the land of Kolyma for an 
elusive key to the magical door.

After an exhaustive search, and many adventures, King Graham eventually
discovered not only one door,but THREE doors,one right behind the other, which
required THREE keys to be found.  Once through the three magicaldoors, Graham
found himself on an enchanted island in a wild sea, where he disovered the
quartz tower and successfully rescued the beautiful girl.  As soon as King
Graham saw her he fell instantly and deeply in love with her,and she with him.
Her name was Valanice and she told him she had been imprisoned in the tower by a
jealous witch.  And yes, she agreed to become his wife.  After returning to
Daventry, in a beautiful wedding ceremony, Valanice became King Graham's wife,
and Queen of Daventry.


                      King's Quest III: "To Heir is Human":
                      -------------------------------------

A year after the wedding of King Graham and Queen Valanice, twins were born to
the happy couple; a dark-haired boy, and a golden-haired girl.  The boy was
named Alexander, and the girl, Rosella.  One morning about six months later,
Queen Valanice looked into the nursery and found it unattended with Alexanders
crib empty and Rosella crying uncontrollably.  The castle was scoured high and
low, and every inch of Daventry was searched.  But there was never any sign of
the little boy.  The entire kingdom sank into a deep depression that never
lifted, and as a direct result, was unable to defend itself when a terrible
dragon moved into the area and caused mass destruction.  Through it all, the
big question remained like a brick upon the breast of Daventry: what HAD
happened to little Prince Alexander?

Eighteen years later finds an unhappy lad by the name of Gwydion searching
desperately for a way to escape the slavery enforced upon him by the evil
wizard Manannan.  Manannan and Gwydion lived in a house high upon a mountain
peak in the center of Llewdor, a land far across the sea from Daventry.  The
poor boy knew not whince he came from, or how he got to be there; all he knew
was that he'd lived his entire life with the cruel wizard.  For as long as
Gwydion could remember, the wizard had treated him cruelly and very rarely let
him out of his sight.

Manannan was very keen and noticed anything out of the ordinary, so the boy
needed to be very careful with any escape plans. Gwydion decided to fight fire
with fire; that is, to fight Manannan with his own magic.  When the wizard
wasn't looking,Gwydion would sneak to the laboratory and learn magic spells
and would secretly gather the materials needed to cast them.One day he got the
break he needed; when Manannan's attention was diverted, Gwydion was able to
turn the wizard into a cat, who ran away vowing he would get even. But Gwydion
wasn't worried, he was too happy about his newfound freedom.

During his subsequent travels around Llewdor, Gwydion discovered his true
identity; that he was really Prince Alexander of Daventry.  With this news he
was eager to find his way there, and later managed to cross the vast sea
dividing Llewdor and Daventry.From the coast he next needed to cross the great
mountains surronding Davntry, whereupon he discovered a dragon which had been
terrorizing Daventry for years.  Using his fledgling magical skills
Gwydion..oops!..Alexander managed to overpower it, and save his captive sister
Rosella in the process.  From there, the brother and sister went on home to a
joyful reunion with their anxious, but loving, parents.

                    King's Quest IV: "The Peirls of Rosella":
                    -----------------------------------------

Prince Alexander and Princess Rosella were tearfully and joyfully reuniting
with their parents,King Graham and Queen Valanice,who had feared they had now
lost BOTH of their children to devious circumstances,when the stress of it all
proved to much for King Graham. He was about to pass his old adventurer's hat
on to his two children, when he was suddenly struck with a sever heart attack.
As he doubled over in pain and fell to the floor, dropping the hat in the
process, his wife and children rushed to him in a panic.  The hat was quite
forgotten and left lying on the throne room floor in the ensuing aproar.

As King Graham lie,near death, upon his bed,his wife and two children hovering
worriedly over him, Princess Rosella was suddenly overcome with emotion at the
terrible thought of her dear father dying.  Sobbing, she ran from her father's
chamber and into its cushioned seat, staining it with her tears.  As she was
thus preoccupied, a vision of a beautiful fairy suddenly appeared in the magic
mirror hanging on the wall near the throne.The fairy spoke to Rosella, through
the mirror, and told her of a magical healing fruit which grew in the faraway
land of Tamir, where she lived.  The fruit, Rosella was assured, would indeed
cure her father and bring him back to full health.

Of course eager to help her father in any way she could, Rosella learned that
the fairy could magically transport her to Tamir, where she could find the
healing fruit.  But before returning home, she also learned, she would first
need to help the beautiful fairy,whose name was Genesta, with a slight problem
SHE had. Rosella immediately agreed to it; anything to help her dying father.
She had no sooner assured the fairy of her help than she suddenly felt herself
being magically transported from the throne room in her castle to a balmy
beach in a strange land.The fairy Genesta appeared in person and informed
Rosella of her need to have her talisman returned to her from her archenemy,
the evil fairy Lolotte. Without it, Genesta would die in twenty-four hours. As
it was, she was already becoming very weak.

Rosella's tasks were thus set.  Not only must she save her father by obtaining
a magical fruit, but she must also save the life of Genesta by obtaining a
talisman from an evil fairy;and she had to do it all within twenty-four hours!
Of course Rosella, being a very resourceful girl,managed to successfully avoid
the various peirls thrown in her path while travelling throughout Tamir.  She
was victorious in her quest for the fruit; she managed to extricate the
talisman from Lolotte and thus save Genesta's life; and she found a possible
true love in the person of Edgar, Lolotte's kind hearted son. True to her
promise, the grateful fairy then sent Rosella immediately back to Daventry.

Upon her magical return to the throne room, Rosella picked up her father's hat
still lying on the floor,and then rushed to his bed chamber. After giving King
Graham the healing fruit which indeed restored him to perfect health, she
proudly placed his old adventurer's hat upon his head, proclaiming that he was
not yet ready to give it up; that he had many years and adventures still left
in him. There were hugs all around, and the future looked very bright, for
themselves and for Daventry.

And life in Daventry continues....


                                General Questions
                                -----------------

All I do is wander around!
There must be more to an adventure game than this!

   Yes, there is.  You're not observing what's around you. LOOK at everything,
   especially something that catches your eye or looks unusual or conspicuous.
   Look under things, or on top of things.  Try to TALK to other characters.
   USE the exploration process to your advantage.

   This is the time to explore and map your world. Imagine that your are Lewis
   and Clark (the great American explorers) and are discovering the great
   American West for the first time.  Lewis and Clark didn't know their way
   around;they had to map their way as they went and OBSERVE what was going on
   around them. YOU are Lewis and Clark.  Adapt your thinking to the land you
   are currently walking around in. What WOULD you do if you were really here?

This game is to fast!  This game is too slow!

   Most of Sierra's animated adventure games have the capability to speed up
   or slow down. In this particular game, look at the icon bar and choose the
   "slider bar" icon.  Once you have done this, a choice will come between
   choosing "speed control," "volume control," or "detail control."  Choose
   "speed control."  You can then use the slider bar to set a comfortable
   "traveling" speed.  It is helpful to be able to "speed up" or "slow down"
   in various game situations.
   
How can I "see" the items I'm carrying?

   In this game, look at the icon bar and choose the icon that looks like a
   satchel or purse.This will bring up a screen showing detail pictures of all
   the items you're carrying.  From here, you will also be able to SELECT an
   inventory item for use in the game,or to perhaps MANIPULATE the object (for
   instance, to open a puch) by clicking the "hand" cursor on it. You can also
   get a detailed description of the item by clicking the "eye" cursor on it.

How do I "drop" items?

   Once you acquire an object, it's not necessary to "drop" or "let go" of it;
   you never know when you may need it.However, items may "go away" as you use
   them up or give them away.

Am I the only one who keeps failing in my quest? Im tired of starting all over
again from the beginning of the game. What am I doing wrong?

   One mistake people make all the time is to not SAVE THEIR GAMES! That is
   the first lesson to learn.  Save your game OFTEN!

   What some people call a failure others call a learning experience.  How can
   you learn unless you sometimes fail?  Use your mistakes to your advantage.
   Learn from them.  You cannot always know what will work or not work unless
   you take risks. 

   Before going into a questionable situation, SAVE YOUR GAME!  In fact, it
   doesn't hurt to save your game periodically as you never know when
   something unexpected may happen. While playing an adventure game,you NEED
   to sometimes fail. Your mistakes are what help you to learn and advance in
   the game.Fortunately for you,you have the option of saving your game before
   making mistakes.  Use this option...OFTEN!

Where does King Graham put all that stuff he's carrying?

   The same place Clark Kent puts his clothes when he changes into Superman!


              Walk Through by Region: The Woods and Town of Serenia
              -----------------------------------------------------

                             Character Introduction
                             ----------------------

Crispin

   An aging, kind-hearted wizard.  He tends to be a bit forgetful at times and
   sometimes messes up hi smagic spells.  Cedric the owl is his trusty friend
   and companion.  Crispin offers some help and guidance to Graham.

Cedric

   Actually, Cedric accompanies Graham through most of the game; first as a
   pesky guide, later as a friend.  Cedric is the owl companion of the wizard
   Crispin.  Though he does provide SOME assistance to Graham, he usually
   manages to wind up in some sort of trouble...and then needs Graham's help
   to get out of it.

Poisonous Snake

   Just south of Crispin's house,Graham will encounter a venomous snake which
   is blocking his path eastward. Graham will need something to scare it away.

Man Fixing Broken Wagon

   In the town, Graham will run across a man fixing a broken wagon.  Though
   Graham offers to assist him, the man declines his help.  Perhaps later,
   though, the man will inadvertently help Graham when he leaves something
   behind that Graham can use.

Tailor

   There is a prosperous tailorship in town where Graham can meet a tailor who
   tries to sell him various items of clothing.  There is only one thing that
   Graham is interested in,though,IF he can figure out the means to obtain it.

Toymaker

   Also in town there is a cute little toyshop.A friendly old toymaker runs it
   while taking care of his small granddaughter.  Graham finds something he
   wants in there, but he needs to find a way to obtain it.

Shoemaker and Wife

   Around the corner from the toyshop there is a run-down shoeshop.  An old
   shoemaker and his wife run it, but unfortunetly don't have a single pair of
   shoes to sell.  Graham feels very sorry for them, and would like to find a
   way to help them. If he can do that..perhaps they could help him in return.

Cat and Rat

   One time, while walking past the town and bakehouse, Graham notices a mangy
   old cat chasing a poor defenseless rat.  Graham would like to find a way to
   save the rat from the cat, but how?

The Baker Brothers

   The Baker brothers run the town bakehouse. These two are big, burly fellows
   who have delicious custard pies for sale.Graham's mouth waters when he sees
   them, and would love to buy one; if he could only find the means!

Prince Herbert

   Sitting on a log in the woods,Graham runs across a young prince in a search
   for his lost fiancee who has been stolen be jealous old witch.  Perhaps
   Graham can help find her.

Weeping Willow Tree

   In another part of the woods, Graham sees a weeping willow tree strumming
   sadly on her harp. Poor thing,she was a princess who was turned into a tree
   be an evil witch. Graham can help her,IF he can find her stolen heart which
   the witch turned to gold and hid somewhere.

Old Gnome and Grandson

   An old grandfather gnome and his young grandson live in the wood just south
   of the weeping willow tree.  A marionette that the young one plays with
   captures Graham's attention.  Perhaps Graham can find a way to obtain it.

Innkeeper and Pals

   Near the river lies a rustic country inn.  The innkeeper is, however, not
   quite so charming.  Neither are his hooligan buddies.  Graham can find
   himself in big trouble if he tangles with this bunch, so he had better be
   prepared!

Bees and Bear

   Just downstream from the inn, Graham runs across a beehive in a rotted old
   tree.  He had better be careful,though; bees can be very vicious when their
   beehive is threatened!  It sure would be nice to have a chunk of honeycomb,
   though.  A big old bear might help the situation.  IF Graham is careful!

Ants and Dog

   Graham comes upon a large anthill just north of the beehove, but there
   doesn't seem to be anything to do here.A snarly old dog may unintentionally
   come to Graham's aid, though.

Gypsies

   In another part of the woods, Graham sees a gypsy wagon, which houses a
   fortune teller.  Unfortunately, a gypsy man demands the price of one gold
   coin before Graham can see her.  Where can he get that kind of money?

                              Questions & Answers 
                              -------------------

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Once I leave Crispin's house at the beginning of the game, can I ever go back
in again?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Yes, once.

You may go back into Crispins house one more time,but he'll just send you back
outside again, telling you that he has done all that he can. He also tells you
that he will be gone for awhile.  After that, his door is locked.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Is their anything I can do outside of Crispin's house?I noticed a funny gadget
there.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
It may be a funny gadget but it has nothing to do with you.

This is a private home!  You shouldn't snoop around here.

In all seriousness, there is nothing to be done around Crispin's house.  It's
best to move on.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
What sorts of things does Cedric do to "help" me.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Not much, really.  He's more like Graham's pesky sidekick.

He offers a few hints. He'll tell Graham which direction to go to get to
different places around Serenia.

At first, Cedric helps Graham become familiar with the local area.He will warn
Graham about dangerous places.  Once they enter the mountains, though, Cedric
becomes less useful in that particular way, but then starts to become Graham's
friend, from a "story" point of view.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
How can I get past the poisonous snake?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
You need to scare him away.

You need something to scare him away with.

You need something to make a lot of noise.

You need to find a tambourine somewhere.

The gypsies leave behind a tambourine when they go.  Use it to scare the snake
away.  Sometime after seeing the fortune teller, go back to their area to find
it.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
In town,am I supposed to help the man fix his wagon? Currently, he refuses any
help.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
No, he doesn't need your help.

He's got it under control.  Thanks anyway.

He might leave something behind when he goes.  Look carefully around the area
after he's gone.

The man leaves behind a silver coin.  You'll notice it on the street near the
broken wagon.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Is there anything I can do with the broken wagon?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Nope.

The wagon is really just an obstacle to logically keep you from going down the
small side street.  It's just a prop.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Besides the tailorshop,the toyshop, and the shoeshop, is there anything else I
should pay attention to in the town?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Look carefully at the picture of the town.  Do you see anything of interest?
There are a couple of things to do here.

Do you see the barrel on the corner?

Do you see a small glint near the broken wagon (AFTER the man fixing it has
left)?

Look in the barrel on the corner.  You will find a smelly old fish in there.

Look on the street near the broken wagon AFTER the man has gone. You will find
a silver coin he left behind.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I see a cloak I want in the tailorshop!  How can I get it?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The tailor has lost something he treasures.

The tailor lost something near the country inn.

There is something that belongs to the tailor in the haystack by the country
inn.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I saw a wonderful little sled in the toyshop!  I'd love to buy it.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
First, you need to find something that the toymaker would like in exchange.

The toymaker is always interested in unusual new toys.

Go visit the gnomes.  Do you see the marionette that the boy gnome is playing
with?

The toymaker would love to have the marionette!  He would gladly exchange the
sled for it.

By returning somethign that belongs to the old gnome, you can obtain the
marionette from his grandosn,  Take that to the toymaker who will give you the
sled in return.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
There are no shoes for sale in the shoeshop.  What do I do there?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
You need to give them something that they'd love to have!

The shoemaker is always interested in fine shoes.

You can obtain a pair of fine shoes from an elf who lives in the dark forest.
Take them to the shoemaker who will give you his cobbler's hammer in return.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I saw a cat chasing a rat outside the bakehouse!  Should I do something here?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Yes.  Save the rat from the terrible jaws of the cat!

You need to throw something at the cat in order to save the rat.

You can throw either the old shoe, or the stick at the cat.  Either of those
will hit the cat and chase it away.  Be quick, though!  You'll have ONE chance
to do this!

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
There are custard pies for sale in the bakehouse, but I need a silver coin.
Help!
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
You will find a silver coin in the town.

The man fixing the wagon in the town will drop a siilver coin in the street
when he leaves.

Visit the town once and notice the man fixing the wagon.  Leave.  Come back.
You will notice that the man is no longer there. However,near the broken wagon
you will see a small glint.  That is a silver coin that he dropped.  Use it to
buy a custard pie at the bakehouse.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I met a sad prince in the woods.  Is there something I can do for him?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Sort of...indirectly.

Actually, the one you want to help is the weeping willow tree.  When you help
HER, you will automatically help HIM.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The weeping willow tree needs her heart back.  Where can I find it?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
In the dark forest.

You need to conquer the witch in the dark forest first.

It's in a tree in the dark forest behind a locked door.  But you can't get it
until you've conquered the evil witch.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I came across two gnomes in the woods.  The younger one was playing with a
marionette.  Tell me what to do to get it!
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
You need to give something to the grandfather gnome first.

The grandfather gnome has lost something.If you return it to him he'll let you
have his grandson's marionette in exchange.

The grandfather gnome has lost his spinning wheel that spins straw into gold.
The evil witch took it and hid it in the dark forest.  If you can return it to
him he will be so grateful that he'll let you have his grandson's marionette.
And, no!  You cannot use the spinning wheel yourself!

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Whenever I enter the inn I keep getting hit on the head and thrown in the
cellar where I find myself tied up in a rope...and I die! How can I get out of
this?!
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Someone needs to help you out of this situation.  Notice the rat hole in the
cellar?

The rat will save you by chewing through the rope if you save her from the cat
first.

Look at the question about the cat chasing the rat near the bakehouse.  If you
save the rat from the cat, the rat will then save you by chewing through the
rope.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Okay,I managed to get free of the rope in the inn's cellar,but now I can't get
OUT of the cellar because the door has a padlock on it!
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I hope you have something to break the padlock.

Do you have the shoemaker's hammer?

If you have the shoemaker's hammer,you can use it to break the padlock and let
yourself out of the cellar.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Is there anything to get in the inn's cellar while I'm here?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Look on the floor.  Do you see anything of interest?

Get the rope!

The rope is the only thing of interest in the inn's cellar.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Is there anything I need in the country inn's kitchen?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Do you see a cupboard in the back of the room?

There is a leg of lamb inside the cupboard.  Get it.


------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Can I ever do anything with the innkeeper besides getting hit on the head?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Nope.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I think there's something important with the haystack by the inn.  Am I right?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Right you are!

There's something in the haystack that you need.

But you can't find it yourself.  You need help.

The ants will help you with the haystack, but you need to help them first.
Look at the question about the ants.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I found a beehive in an old tree! But now,how do I get to the hive without the
bees killing me?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
You need to make friends with them first.

You need to save the bees from a big old bear first.

The bear will come if you're carrying the fish that is found in the barrel in
town.

Throw the fish at the bear.  He will take the fish and walk away with it.  The
bees will be so grateful that they'll let you take a honeycomb from the hive.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I see an old bear pawing at the beehive in the old tree!  Is there anything I
can do with him?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Aren't you carrying a fish?

Throw the fish at the bear.  He would rather have that than honey.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Okay, I got the honeycomb from the beehive. Before I go,is there anything else
of importance around here?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Look on the ground by the tree.  Do you see anything interesting?

Do you see a stick lying on the ground at the bass of the old tree?  Get it.
You'll need it later.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I found a huge anthill!  Can I do anything with it or the ants?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
You can't ever really do anything with the ants themselves.Later on you'll see
someone bothering their anthill and you'll be able to help them with that
problem.

Later on, you'll see that a snarly old dog is digging at the anthill.  If you
can get rid of the dog,the ants will be very grateful and will do something to
help you in return.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
A dog is pawing at the anthill!  Can I stop it from doing that?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
You need to provide the dog with another source of interest other than the
anthill.

The dog loves to chase after old shoes or sticks.

If you have an old shoe, or a stick...the dog will chase after it if you throw
it.  He will then leave the anthill alone.  The ants will be so grateful that
they'll promise you to help you later on.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
There is a fortune teller inside the gypsy wagon,but the man outside won't let
me in without a gold coin!  Where do I find one?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
There is a gold coin somewhere in the desert.

In the desert there is a temple.  Inside the temple is a gold coin.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
All right, I finally got in to see the fortune teller.  She gave me a magic
amulet and told me it would stop all but the most powerful magic.  Where can I
use it?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
In the dark forest.

Use it against the witch in the dark forest.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Is there anything else I can get from the gypsies besides a magic amulet?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Yes.  Go back there again.

Yes.  When they leave, they leave behind a tambourine.  Go back there and get
it.

 
                       Walk Through by Region: The Desert
                       ----------------------------------

                             Character Introduction
                             ----------------------

1. Bandits

   Graham can run into the bandits in two places in the desert.By the temples,
   and at their camp.  He needs to be careful around them and try to hide as
   much as he can.  They are very vicious and think nothing of violenece.  If
   Graham is very observant by the Temple, he may watch them and learn
   something very important.

                               Questions & Answers
                               -------------------

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I keep dying from thirst in the desert.How can I find my way around it without
dying or getting lost?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
First of all, save your game right before entering the fdesert.  Most
important! (The brushland is safe.)

Save the game in the brushland,and have a piece of paper and a pencil ready.As
you proceed through the desert, map it.

There are oases in the desert.  When you find one, you can quench your thirst.
Map your way through the desert.

There are five oases,and one clay jar of water in the desert. When you map the
desert with a pencil and paper,you can find them. Make sure you save your game
before entering the desert, and at each oasis you find. There is also a temple
and a bandit cencampment you need to locate.

As a last resort you can always refer to the desert map at the back of the
book.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Is there any reason to go in the desert at all?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
There sure is!

There are things you NEED in the desert!

There is a temple you need to find with two important objects inside it, and
somewhere in the desert is abandit encampment with another thing you need.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I found a temple in the desert! Problem is, a couple of bandits come riding in
on horses and kill me!  What do I do?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
You need to hide from the bandits.

You need to hide and observe the bandits when they go up to the temple door.

Hide behind one of the large rocks to the right of the picture when the
bandits are approaching. Then watch as they go up to the temple door,you might
learn something important!

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I saw a bandit opening the temple door, but when I try it...it seems there's
something missing.  What's missing?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Did you notice if the bandit had anything in his hand?

Did you see the staff that the bandit was carrying?  Did you see him hit the
staff on the door?

The bandit had a staff in his hand which he hit on the temple door.  It's a
magic staff, and you need it to open the door.  You can find the staff at the
bandits camp in the desert.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I found a skeleton in the desert!  Is there anything to be done with him or is
he just a "decorative" piece?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Well...it's to late to do anything with HIM!

However, there may be something of interest nearby.

There is an old shoe next to the skeleton.  Get it.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I ran across a couple of seemingly empty tents in the desert, but whenever I
try to enter the larger one, a bandit kills me! Is there anything to do here,
and can I enter the larger tent?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
No, you cannot ever enter the larger tent.  And yes, there IS something to do
here, but not yet.

When the tents are empty, that means that you need to do something else first.
Once you have done this other thing,then the tents will no longer be empty and
what you need to do will then be more apparent.

You need to OBSERVE the two bandits at the temple first.  Once you have done
that, the bandits tents will no longer be empty.

Hide behind the rock at the temple and OBSERVE the two bandits at the temple
door. Once you've done that the bandits tents will no longer be empty. Go into
the smaller tent and find the staff that the one bandit used on the temple
door. Get it.  Oh...and don't forget to drink water from the water jar before
leaving!

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I enter the smaller tent at the bandits' encampment and see a sleeping bandit.
Is there anything I need in here?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Yes, there is.  Look around the tent more carefully.

Do you see a staff at the back of the tent?

Carefully and quickly go around the sleeping bandit WITHOUT touching him, and
grab the staff.  Then hurry up and leave.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The sleeping bandit inside the smaller tent keeps waking up and killing me!
What am I doing wrong?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
You're either taking too long, or you're touching him, or talking to him.

You don't have much time once you enter the smaller tent,so you need to hurry.
Also, be very careful not to touch him as you go toward the back of the tent.
Above all, don't talk to him!

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Okay, I finally entered the temple and saw piles of gilttering treasure!  But
whenever I try to get any of it I always die!  Help!
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Aren't you being just a bit greedy?

Greedieness killed the cat, you know...or was it curiosity?

Anyway, did you see anything else besides treasure in here?  Look around
carefully, but don't take too long!

Do you see a brass bottle near the temple door?  Do you see a glinting coin
next to it?

Quickly, grab the brass bottle, and then the gold coin next to it.  Then
leave...quickly!

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The door to the temple keeps closing and trapping me inside!  How can I keep
this from happening?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
You can't keep this from happening.  You just need to hurry!

Hurry up and get the brass bottle and the gold coin near the door.  Then
leave...quickly!
 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I got a brass bottle from inside the temple.  How do I open it or look inside
it?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Go to the inventory screen and click the "hand" cursor on it.

Bring up the inventory screen and then select the "hand" cursor.  Click the
"hand" cursor on the picture of the brass bottle.  That will "open" the brass
bottle for you.  (You might want to save your game before doing this, though.)

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Every time I open the brass bottle, I die at the hands of a genie!  How can I
open the bottle without this happening?  Can I ever get rid of him, or use him
in any way?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Yes, there will come a time when you can use him.  But, not by YOU opening the
bottle!

There will come a time when someone else will open the bottle and get taken
care of by the genie.  However, YOU should never open the bottle (and if you,
save your game first!).



                     Walk Through by Region: The Dark Forest
                     ---------------------------------------

                             Character Introduction
                             ----------------------

1. Old Witch

   Graham encounters a wicked old witch in the dark forest. Unless he's
   adequetly protected she will always immediately turn him into a toad as she
   doesn't like trespassers in her forest.Once he's protected she can still be
   quite annoying; doing things like preventing him from entering her house,or
   leaving the dark forest. It would help if he could find a way to get rid of
   her.

2. Elf

   Once Graham has conquered the witch,he can meet a little elf. This elf will
   show Graham the way out of the forest IF he can ctach him first!  The elf
   will also give Graham something very useful.

                               Questions & Answers
                               -------------------

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I know it's dangerous to enter the dark forest.  What things do I need before
entering it?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Something from the fortune teller. Something from the bees. And something from
the temple in the desert.

You need to WEAR the amulet you get from the fortune teller.  You need to have
the honeycomb from the beehive.  And you need the brass bottle from the temple
in the desert.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The old witch keeps turning me into a toad!  How can I stop that?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
You need something to protect you from the witch's magic.

You need to get something from the fortune teller to protect you from the
witch's magic.

Once you've gotten in to see the fortune teller, she will give you a magic
amulet which will protect you from the witch's magic. Don't forget to WEAR it,
though (do that by clicking the "amulet" cursor on Graham).

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Now that I can safely walk across the dark forest without the witch turning me
into a toad, I still can't seem to DO anything here!  She keep getting in my
way!  Also, how can I leave the dark forest?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
First of all, you need to get rid of the old witch before you're able to
accomplish anything in the dark forest.  And, unless you get rid of her, plus
have some other objects in your possession,you won't be able to leave the dark
forest.

The first thing you need to do is get rid of the witch.  If you have the brass
bottle, give it to her.  The genie inside will take care of her!  Once she's
gone, you can enter her house and find soem other objects.

get rid of the witch by giving her the brass bottle.  The genie inside it will
take care of her! (Hopefully, you're carrying the honeycomb.)  Enter her house
and gather up three objects she's got inside there.  Use a combination of the
honeycomb and one of the objects inside her house to escape the dark forest.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I'm pretty sure there are things I need to get inside the witch's house.  Can
you tell me which items I should get there?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
You need to get THREE things inside the witch's house.

You need to get a leather puch,a little spinning wheel, and a small key inside
the witch's house.

You will find a leather pouch in a drawer, a spinning wheel in a trunk, and a
small key in an incense burner hanging from the ceiling inside the witch's
house.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I found a spooky old tree with a little door in it!  Problem is, the door is
locked.  How can I open it?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
You need to have a key to unlock the little door.

You can find a key in the witch's house to unlock the little door.

There is a little key in the incense burner inside the witch's house.Use it to
unlock the little door in the tree.  Inside you will find a little gold heart.
Take it.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Once I got rid of the witch I suddenly saw several pairs of eyes staring at me
in one part of the forest!  Is this significant?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Yes, it is.  Those "eyes" are your key to getting out of the forest.

Those "eyes" are actually shy little elves staring at you from the safety of
the thick foilage. You need to catch one of them. Once you've done this,
the elf will show you the way out of the forest.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I found a leather pouch in the witch's house, but I don't know how to open it.
Help!
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Just bring up the inventory screen and click the "hand" cursor on it.

Go to the icon bar and select the inventory screen.  Then select the "hand"
cursor and click on the picture of the leather pouch. This will open the pouch
and reveal its contents to you.This action will also cause the contents of the
pouch to be seperated from the pouch as seperate picture of its own,so that
you will then be able to "use" the contents as you would any of the other
inventory items.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I managed to entice a little elf out of his hiding place behind the bushes,but
I can't seem to catch him!  What am I doing wrong?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Obviously you were smart enough to use the emeralds that you found in the
leather pouch with the elf.  Good work!  But now, you need to be able to catch
him while he comes to get the emerald.  He's awful quick, though!  You need to
use something that will slow him down.

Perhaps if the elf got his feet stuck in something...like honey!  Maybe
squeezing the honeycomb on the ground would help slow him down when he runs
after the emerald.

Squeeze honey from the honeycomb on the ground first.  This will make a little
puddle of honey.  THEN throw the emeralds on the ground one at a time.The last
emerald will land in the puddle of honey and when he takes it his feet will
get stuck. You will be able to catch him in this way.  Then he'll show you the
way out of the forest.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The little elf gave me a fine pair of shoes.  What do I do with them?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Did you meet the shoemaker in town?

The shoemaker and his wife might appreciate them.



                   Walk Through by Region: The Great Mountains
                   -------------------------------------------

                             Character Introduction
                             ----------------------

1. Wolves

   The wolves are the pets and servants of the Ice Queen.  They love and rever
   her and will do whatever she wants.If she doesn't like Graham then...she'll
   sic her dogs on him.

2. Eagle

   Graham will encounter a straving eagle near the Ice Queen's palace.  Maybe
   there is a way that Graham could help the poor thing.

3. Queen Icebella

   The Ice Queen lives in the coldest reaches of the mountains in a cold, icy
   palace.  She is very possessive of her terriotory and doesn't like it when
   Graham and Cedric trespass without her permission.  Since she has such a
   cold, stony heart the situation doesn't look very good.  Maybe Graham can
   find a way to soften her heart...just a little bit.

4. Yeti

   Queen Icebella is even less fond of the yeti who has invaded her territory
   than she is of Graham and cedric.  She might give Graham a chance to save
   his and Cedric's life...IF he can somehow remove the yeti from her realm.

5. Roc

   What is a "roc," you say?  A roc is a giant, two-headed bird.  This
   particular roc sees Graham walking through the mountains and thinks he is
   the perefect meal to feed to its baby just hatching from its giant egg.
   Graham gets a free ride to a huge nest...just in time to face the hungry
   mouth of the baby roc!

                               Questions & Answers
                               -------------------

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I keep dying of cold in the mountains!  What can I do about this?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
You need to find something to keep you warm.

You need to find a piece of clothing that will keep you warm.

Look in the tailorshop.  Perhaps there's a warm piece of clothing there.

Give the golden needle to the tailor in exchange for the cloak.  Then wear the
cloak by clicking the "cloak" cursor on Graham.(See the question about getting
the cloak from the tailorshop.)

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I'm at a dead-end in the mountains.  The path ends at a frozen waterall and I
don't know where to go from here.  Help!
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Unless you have a rope, you're not going to go beyond this point.

You need the rope from the country inn to get you past this point. If you have
it, throw it up to the rock overhang above you. Then climb up it. (Look at the
questions about the country inn.)

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I throw my rope up to a tree branch, but it always breaks whenever I start to
climb up the rope!  What am I doing wrong?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
You're throwing the rope up to the wrong place.  Look at the picture again and
look for another place where you could throw the rope.

Don't throw the rope to the tree branch!  Do you see the rock overhang to the
right of the tree branch...?

There is a rock overhang to the right of the jutting tree branch, instead of
throwing the rope to the tree branch,throw the rope to the rock overhang. The
rock overhang will hold and you will be able to climb up the rope
successfully.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Okay, I finally climbed up the rope to an upper ledge.  Here the ledge ends at
a frozen waterfall. On the other side of the frozen waterfall I see a fallen
log crossing a chasm.  How can I get over to the fallen log?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Do you see any rocks crossing the frozen waterfall...?

There are some small rocks crossing the frozen waterfall.If you use the "hand"
cursor on the small rocks Graham will jump to them.

Important: SAVE your game here!  Then use the "hand" cursor on the small rocks
crossing the frozen waterfall.  This will cause Graham to jump to the small
rocks thereby crossing over to the other side.  However some of the rocks are
not stable and may break,causing Graham to fall to his death,hence the need to
save your game first.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
A wolf came and stole Cedric!  Where is he?  Will I ever see him again?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Yes, you will see him again.  In fact, you'll have a chance to save his life.

He's a prisoner of the Ice Queen in her icy palace.  If you do the right thing
she will give you a chance to save his life and continue your journey. 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I keep dying of hunger in the mountains!  Is there some food I can eat?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Yes, actually there are two kinds of food that you COULD eat,but only one kind
that you SHOULD eat.

There is a custard pie that you can obtain in the bakehouse, and a leg of lamb
that you can obtain in the country inn's kitchen.  BOTH the pie and the leg of
lamb will satisfy your hunger.  However, you should eat only ONE of them, and
not the other!

You can obtain a custard pie in the bakehouse,and a leg of lamb in the country
inn's kitchen. DON'T eat the custard pie, even though it will satisfy your
hunger, as you'll need to use it later in the game.  EAT the leg of lamb..but
only HALF of it, not ALL of it!

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I have come upon a wide crevasse in the snowy path which I can't seem to cross
without falling to my death!  What can I do about this?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
You need to be carrying an object to help you cross.  Did you see anything
interesting in the toyshop...?

Did you get the sled from the toyshop?  That will help you cross the crevasse.
Just "use" the sled in the picture prior to the one with the crevasse.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I met a hungry eagle in the mountains.  Is there anything I can do for him?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Well, he's HUNGRY, isn't he?  Feed him something?

Actually, the eagle will eat either the custard pie from the bakehouse OR the
half of the leg of lamb you have left over from the country inn.  One of those
is the wrong thing to feed him, though.

Feed the half leg of lamb that you got from the country inn to the eagle.DON'T
feed him the custard pie as you'll need it later in the game.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
As I near the icy castle a couple of wolves capture me and take me in to see
Queen Icebella.  She doesn't like me, though, and keeps having her wolves kill
me!  There must be something I can do here!
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Queen Icebella is a lover of music.

She would love to have some nice music played to her, preferably "harp" music.

Did you get the harp from the weeping willow tree?  If so, play it to the Ice
Queen.

If you have gotten the harp from the weeping willow tree, then AS the wolves
start to come toward Graham to kill him, quickly select the harp from the
inventory screen and "click" it on either Graham or the Ice Queen.  This will
cause Graham to play beautiful music on the harp which will soften her icy
heart.  She will call off her dogs and give you a chance to continue on with
your quest.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Well, I finally got in Queen Icebellas good graces (I think),but NOW she wants
me to conquer a ferocious yeti for her!  How can I possibly do that?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
If you were successful at the bakehouse,and didn't eat the resulting goods,you
have the perfect weapon to conquer a yeti!

There's nothing like an old pie in the face!

Throw the custard pie,which you wisely didn't eat, at the yeti,it will hit him
in the face causing him to stumble around and accidently fall over the edge of
the cliff.  Good shot!

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I see a crystal in the Ice Queen's crystal cave that I would LOVE to get,but I
can't break it with my bare hands!  How can I get it?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
You are already carrying a very useful object in your inventory.  Look and see
if you're carrying anything that might help you here.

You are carrying a cobbler's hammer.  Use it on the crystal to break it.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
After Queen Icebella let Cedric and I go, we encountered a giant bird who
carried me off to her huge nest!  Unfortunately her giant egg hatched and the
baby bird ate me!  How could I have avoided this situation, and is there
anything to do here?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
If you had been nice to the hungry eagle you meet earlier, yu wouldn't have
ended up as "baby food."

If you had fed your remaining half leg of lamb to the hungry eagle, he would
then come and rescue you from the giant bird's nest.

There is a gold locket in the nest you need to get (notice the glint?).And if
you had fed your remaining half leg of lamb to the hungry eagle he would then
come and rescue you at the last minute.


             Walk Through by Region: Beach, Ocean, and Harpy Island
             ------------------------------------------------------

                             Character Introduction
                             ----------------------

1. Old Hermit

   On the beach, Graham runs into a strange little house made of parts of
   wrecked ships where lives an ancient-looking hermit.  The hermit would be
   able to help Graham...if only he could HEAR him! Perhaps Graham can find an
   object which will help communications with the old man.

2. Harpies

   Upon discovering an island in the ocean, Graham and Cedric also run into a
   group of vicious harpies who inhabit it.  The harpies, terrible creatures
   with a womans head and body and a bird's wings and claws, love nothing more
   than a good man...to eat!  Can Graham find his way out of this one!

3. Sea monster

   A huge monster lives in the ocean and doesnt like to be bothered by passing
   boats.  Graham would be well advised to stay out of his way!

                               Questions & Answers
                               -------------------

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I found a boat on the beach!  Unfortunately it has a hole in it. How can I fix
it?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
You already have the right object in your inventory.What do you think might be
appropriate to fixing a small hole in a boat?

You need something to plug up the hole. You're already carrying an object that
can do this.  How about a piece of wax?

You're carrying some beeswax.Use this to plug up the hole in the bottom of the
boat.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I met an old hermit on the beach but he doesn't seem to be able to hear me!
Will I EVER be able to communicate with him?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Eventually you will be able to...IF you find an object which would be able to
amplify sounds.

There is a conch shell on the beach of Harpy Island.  Using the shell as an
amplifier when he holds it to his ear,the old hermit will thus be able to hear
and then help Graham.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I finally fixed the boat and was able to sail with it into the ocean.Now...how
do I keep from getting lost, or eaten by sea monsters?  What am I looking for?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
If you sail straight out to the east from either beach below where you found
the boat,or from the hermit's house,you will run into a little island that you
need to find after four changes of "ocean" scenes.Don't go any other direction
but east from those two "beach" areas.  From where you FOUND the boat,go south
ONCE or TWICE and then go east to run into that same little island.

Once you have found the little island by going east from either the beach
below where you found the boat,por from the hermit's house (or south once or
twice from where you found the boat and THEN east), when you're ready to leave
the little island, go back EXACTLY opposite the way you came; in other words,
directly west.

The only thing to find in the ocean is the little island.  That's all.  If you
were off the path I told you about in the prior two answers, you will just get
eaten by a sea monster.The sea monster is merely a "fence" to keep you within
a small territory of the ocean.

As a last resort you can always refer to the ocean map at the back of this
book.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I got captured by a bunch of harpies and NOW they want to eat me! How can I
get out of this?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The harpies like music.

The harpies like the same kind of music the Queen likes.

Play the harp to the harpies. This will divert their attention from you to the
harp.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Well, I managed to get rid of the harpies.  Is there anything I might need
around here before I go?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Do you notice any suspicious looking "glints" in the area?

If you see an occassional "glint," it is a fishhook you need.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I saw Cedric lying on the ground, wounded. I suppose this is a dumb
question...but should I pick him up and take him with me?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
You're right,it IS a dumb question!  OF COURSE you should pick him up and take
him with you!

If you just leave him there, he'll die. That would make you feel pretty guilty
wouldn't it?

Actually, if you DON'T pick him up you can go on ahead and get to the very end
of the game, but then, just as you think you're about to "win", something will
happen that will kill you, but had Cedric been alive, he would saved you.
Therefore, NOT picking Cedric up is an eventual "death"at the end of the game.
If you DON't pick Cedric up and take him with you, then at the very end of the
game,Mordack will automatically kill you with a deadly "zap"from his wand when
you're in his laboratory.  Had you SAVED Cedric, then he would fly in at the
very instant and the "zap" would hit HIM instead of YOU, but that would give
you time to save yourself.  But, poor Cedric!  Would he be dead for sure this
time?  For the answer to that one, i'll have you win the game first.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cedric is wounded!  Where should I take him?  How can I help him?  Before I
leave Harpy Islands, is there anything I might have forgotten?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
You need to get three things from Harpy Island before you leave.

You need to get a fishhook, wounded Cedric, and a conch shell.

               Walk Through by Region: Mordack's Island and Castle
               ---------------------------------------------------

                             Character Introduction
                             ----------------------

1. The wizard Mordack

   Mordack is a very powerful, very evil wizard who has stolen Graham's family
   and castle, miniaturized them, and imprisoned them in a glass bottle in his
   laboratory.  In order to rescue his captive family,Graham must first locate
   Mordack's island stronghold,and then fight the all-powerful wizard himself.
   That is a very dangerous undertaking; one that Graham many not...survive.

2. The cat Manannan

   Mordack has a pet cat...who is not really his pet at all, but is really his
   brother Manannan turned into a cat by Graham's son some time back (look at
   the story description for King's Quest III: "To Heir is Human").  Mordack
   would like to see Manannan restored back to his old wizard self, but only
   Alexander can do that, who doesn't know how.  Meanwhile, Manannan roams
   Mordack's castle, a very mean, bad-tempered cat whom Graham should try to
   avoid at all costs.

3. Blue Beast

   A huge blue beast acts as a guard in Mordack's castle; as if Mordack really
   needs a guard!  Anyway, this beast should be avoided...for the most part.
   There is ONE time that Graham SHOULD get caught by it, in order to retrieve
   something in another part of the castle; but only ONE time!

4. Dink

   In the labyrinth lives a big, dumb beast called Dink (named by Princess
   Cassima...probably having to do with his manner of speech).Dink isn't a bad
   beast; he's just big and dumb, and doesn't know his own strength.  Graham
   should be very careful around him;perhaps there's something that Dink would
   like to play with....

                               Questions & Answers
                               -------------------

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I crashed my boat on Mordack's island!  Am I stuck here now? Is there anything
I need to do before following the trail upwards?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I'm afraid you are!  And yes, there's something to get here.

Yes, you are.  You'll just have to brave it to the very end now!  Also, don't
forget to get the old dead fish at the bottom of the stone stairs before you
leave.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I see two stone serpents but they keep killing me by shooting lethal rays at
me from their eyes!  How can I get past them?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Did you get an object from the cave in the mountains?

If you are carrying the crystal from the cave in the mountains then you're in
business.  Use it with the stone serpents.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Can I ever enter or leave the castle through the front door?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Nope.

Unfortunately it's inaccessible...throughout the game.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I found a grate by the side of the castle,but it's rusted shut! Is it possible
to open it?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Yes, it's possible...IF you have the right implement.

Did you see anything of interest on the beach above the old hermit's house?

Hopefully you picked up the iron bar on the beach above the old hermits house.
If you did, use it here.  If you didn't...tsk, tsk.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I can't find my way through the labyrinth maze!  Help!
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
If you click the "eye"cursor on the outside of the labyrinth "picture,"meaning
the black part of the screen, then a compass will appear indicating which
direction you are currently facing.  This will help you map the labyrinth.

Besides using the compass,which appears when you click the "eye" cursor on the
outside of the labyrinth "picture," make sure you have a paper and pencil and
very carefully MAP your way through it.

If you're not in the mood to MAP your way through the labyrinth yourself, just
look at the back of this book for the "labyrinth map."  Follow it, keeping in
mind that whenever you turn a corner you will be facing a new direction.  If
you're not sure which direction you're facing, click the "eye" cursor on the
outside of the labyrinth "picture" which will bring up a compass indicating
your current direction.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I found a huge beast in the labyrinth who has a one-word vocabulary of "dink."
He seems harmless enough, but if I get too close to him he grabs and crushes
me! Should I bother with him at all?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
He's useful, all right.  He's got something you need...on top of his head.

Dink has a tuft of hair on top of his head with a hairpin around it.  You need
to get the hairpin from Dink.

The hairpin on top of Dink's head is important.  In order to get it, you need
to give him something you're already carrying.

Dink, being very childlike and prone to excitability, will leap happily in the
air when you give him the tambourine losing his hairpin in the process.  The
hairpin will fall to the ground and when he leaves with the tambourine,
you will be able to retrieve it.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I found a door in the labyrinth, but unfortunately it's locked.  Now what?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
You need to find Dink in the labyrinth.

Search in the labyrinth until you find a big, bulking beast.  He has the "key"
to your problem.

There is a huge beast in the labyrinth who has a hairpin on top of his head.
You need to get this hairpin and use it to open the door. (Look at the prior
question about "Dink.")

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I finally made it to the pantry in the wizards castle.Is there anything I need
here?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Yes, look at the closed cupboard.

There is a bag of dried peas you need to get from inside the closed cupboard.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I found a beautiful girl scrubbing the floor in the kitchen.  Can I help her
in any way?  Can she help ME in any way?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The answer to both questions is "yes."  But to get things started you need to
win her trust first.

Did you take anything of interest from the giant roc's nest?

Did you take the golden locket from the giant roc's nest?  If you did, give it
to her.  If you didn't, well...too bad.

Give the golden locket, which you hopefully took from the giant roc's nest, to
the girl.  This will cause her to trust you and to help you when you later get
yourself caught in a "confining" situation.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I ran into a black cat in the castle, but I don't think he's very friendly.
What, if anything, can I do about him?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Try to avoid him if you can.He'll run and tell Mordack you're in the castle if
he sees you.

Even better...if you can "bag" the cat with the empty bag that once held the
dried peas, you won't have to worry about him any more, and you'll gain a few
extra points to boot!

To "bag" the cat,you need to have an empty "pea" bag(to find out how to get an
empty "pea" bag,look at the upcoming question about the big blue beast) and
you need to have the old dead fish from the wizard's beach.

Give the old dead fish to the cat who will immediately lose all interest in
you and begin greedily eating it.While he's thus preoccupied,"bag"him with the
empty "pea" bag.  This action will give you a few extra points, along with not
having to worry about him anymore.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Can I do anything with the organ in the downstairs hallway?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
You can, but you don't want to.

You can play the organ but all that will accomplish is to call undesired
attention to yourself.  If you do it, SAVE your game first!

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
A big blue beast keeps chasing me in the castle!  How can I avoid him?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Actually, ther's ONE TIME you want to get caught by him, but not until you've
made friends with Princess Cassima, the beautiful girl in the kitchen.

Once you've made friends with Princess Cassima (look at the prior question
about the beautiful girl in the kitchen), you NEED to get caught ONCE by the
beast...but only ONCE!  The beast will throw you in an underground cell where
you can then get something you need. Cassima will save you from the cell...but
only the FIRST time.  After that, you're on your own if you get caught again.

When you're in a situation where you DON'T want to be caught by the beast, if
you have the bag of peas you can use it to save yourself ONE TIME.  As the
beast nears you, "click" the bag of peas on him.  This will make Graham throw
the dried peas on the floor which will cause the beast to slip and slide on
the peas and eventually fall and knock himself out. Now you have an empty
"pea" bag which can be used against the cat.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
A big blue beast threw me into a dungeon cell!  How can I get out of here?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
You must not have made friends with Princess Cassima (the beautiful girl in
the kitchen), otherwise you wouldn't be asking this question.

If you had made friends with Princess Cassima (the beautiful girl), she would
coem and save you...the FIRST TIME only!  The next time, you're dead.
Therefore, take care of her first BEFORE getting caught by the beast (but only
get caught by the beast ONCE).

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I noticed a piece of cheese in the mousehole in the dungeon cell.Unfortunately
I can't quite reach it with my fingers.  How can I get it?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
You need something to help extend your reach.

Preferably with a hook on the end.

How about a fishhook?

Hopefully you got the fishhook when you were on Harpy Island/

If you took the fishhook when you were on Harpy Island, then use it with the
mousehole to retrieve the cheese.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I went into  Mordack's bedroom, but couldn't find anything to take or do.  Is
there anything to do in here?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Right now, there's nothing to do here.  Later there will be.

For now, there's nothing for you to do here.  Instead of hanging around his
bedroom, go south to the library.  You'll find something to do there.

Go south to Mordack's library.  There you'll find something to do. If you hang
around long enough in Mordacks library he'll suddenly appear in his bedroom
and go to sleep in his bed.  THEN you'll find something to do in his bedroom!

Once Mordack has gone to sleep in his bed (which will happen when you hang out
in the libarary to the south), you will be able to take his wand which lies
glowing on his bedroom table.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
What is there to do in the wizard's library?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Do you see an interesting book lying on a desk...?

Actually, there are two things to do here.  First you need to look in his
spell book lying on the corner desk.  Next you need to wait around here until
you see Mordack appear through the open doorway to his bedroom and go to sleep
in his bed.  At that point, go back into his bedroom and take his wand which
you will see lying on his bedside table.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I found some magic spells in a spell book!  What do I do with them?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
At this point, nothing. Once you need them,they will make themselves apparent.

You won't need to "use" the magic spells until the very end of the game when
Graham and Mordack engage in a deadly battle of magic. At that time, the magic
spells will automatically appear when Graham selects Crispin's newly-energized
wand to use against Mordack.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Is there anything I can do to keep Mordack from killing me whenever he finds
me in the castle?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Nope.

Just try to keep him from finding you!

The only time you can keep Mordack from killing you is at the very end of the
game when he encounters you in his laboratory, AFTER you have re-energized
Crispin's wand. At that time,Graham and Mordack engage in a magic battle where
ONE of them is destined to die.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I entered Mordack's laboratory and saw my family imprisoned in a large glass
bottle!  How can I save them?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
There's nothing you can do for them right now.

Actualy there's never anything YOU can do for them. Once you've won the
game (by killing Mordack in the magic battle),Crispin will appear in the final
cartoon, restore them back to normal size and send everyone home where they
belong. 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I found a strange machine on the upper level of the laboratory.  What is it?
How do I turn it on?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
It's a power transfer machine.It transfers power from one item to another. It
needs a certain ingredient to start it up.

It's a power transfer machine which Mordack uses to transfer power or energy
from one item to another.  In order to start it up, you need to drop a key
ingredient in it, namely cheese.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
What items, if any, do I use with Mordack's strange machine in the laboratory?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
You need to use the cheese you found in the dungeon cell to start it up.

You need to place Cripin's powerless wand on one of the iron platters.

You need to place Mordack's glowing wand on the other iron platter.

First, place both Crispin's and Mordack's wands on the two iron platters. Then
drop the cheese into the machine's basin. The cheese is the missing ingredient
to start up the power transfer machine.It will transfer the power of Mordack's
wand, which won't work for Graham, to Crispin's wand, which will.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Oh, no!  Mordack poofed into the laboratory after I de-energized his wand with
the strange machine.  Am I a goner for sure?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Not if you had grabbed Crispin's newly energized wand first.

Hopefully you had removed Crispin's newly energized wand from the iron platter
before Mordack appeared.  If so, now is the time to try to "use" the wand
against Mordack.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Mordack turned himself into a horrible flying beast!  How can I combat this?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Use Cripin's newly energized wand against him.

When you select Cripin's newly energized wand, the magic spells that you had
seen in the book in Mordack's library will appear (IF you had looked in the
book). Select the spell which looks the most like a tiger to combat him.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Now Mordack has turned into a huge dragon!  Now what?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Again, use Cripin's wand against him and select the spell which looks the most
like a rabbit.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Mordack has now transformed into a cobra!  What should I do?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Use Crispin's wand and select the spell which looks most like a mongoose.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Now what?  Mordack has turned himself into a ring of flames which is about to
burn me to death!  Is this the end?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Not if you select the right magic spell to use here.  There's only one left
which you haven't used yet.

Use Cripin's wand and select the spell which looks the most like a raincloud.
This will kill Mordack and will be the end of him!  Now the final cartoon will
begin.


                            After the End of the Game
                            -------------------------

CAUTION:  Do not read this section until you have actually SOLVED the game and
seen the very end.  Reading this section too soon will spoil the game for you
if you have not completed it on your own.

Did you...

...talk to the man fixing his wagon in town?

...give the golden needle to the tailor in the tailorshop?

...give the gold coin to the gypsy man?

...throw either the stick OR the shoe at the cat?

...talk to the prince in the woods?

...walk to close to the anthill and do the "BUG-a-loo?"

...throw either the stick OR the shoe at the dog?

...open the brass bottle yourself (SAVE your game first!)?

...revisit the elves underground area after leaving the dark forest?

...map the whole desert and find all the oases?

...map the whole labyrinth and find all the places that Dink could hide?

...play the organ in Mordack's castle (SAVE your your game first!)?

...get the bag of dried peas from the cupboard in the wizard's pantry?

...throw the dried peas at the big blue beast in Mordack's castle?

...Bag the black cat with the empty pea bag?


                            Locations of All Objects
                            ------------------------

Objects               Where found               Where used
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cripin's wand         From Crispin              At end of game in magic battle
First fish            In barrel in town         Throw to bear
Silver coin           Left on street in town    Buy pie with it
Custard pie           In the bakehouse          Throw it in yeti's face
Honeycomb             In the beehive            Honey on ground in dark forest
Stick                 On ground by beehive      Throw to dog at anthill
Staff                 In bandit tent in desert  At temple door in desert
Brass bottle          In temple in desert       Give to witch in dark forest
Gold coin             In temple in desert       Give to gypsy man
Old shoe              In desert by skeleton     Throw at cat chasing rat
Magic amulet          From fortune teller       Magical protection from witch
Tambourine            Left behind from gypsies  With snake AND with Dink
Gold needle           In haystack by inn        Give to tailor for cloak
Emerald pouch         In witch's house          Throw emeralds to elf "eyes"
Spinning wheel        In witch's house          Give to gnome for marionette
Small key             In witch's house          Open tree door in dark forest
Golden Heart          In tree with small door   Give to weeping willow tree
Pair of shoes         From elf                  Give to shoemaker for hammer
Harp                  From weeping willow tree  With Ice Queen AND harpies
Marionette            From gnomes               Give to toymaker for sled
Hammer                From shoemaker            Inn's cellar AND crystal cave
Sled                  From toymaker             Sled across icy crevasse
Cloak                 From tailor               Use to keep warm in mountains
Rope                  In inn's cellar           Climb up ledge in mountains
Leg of Lamb           In inn's kitchen          Eat half of it in mountains
Half leg of lamb      Left after eating half    Give to hungry eagle
Crystal               In crystal cave           With stone serpent gate
Gold locket           In roc's nest             Give to girl in wizards castle
Iron bar              On beach above hermit     Use to pry open rusted gate
Beeswax               Left after honey is gone  Use to fix hole in boat
Fishhook              On ledge of Harpy Island  Get cheese in mouseholeOf cell
Conch shell           On beach of Harpy Island  Give to hermit as hearing aid
Second fish           On beach of Wizards Isle  Give to cat to distract him
Dink's hairpin        In labyrinth from Dink    Use to unlock labyrinth door
Bag of peas           In castle's pantry        Throw dried cheese atBluebeast
Empty pea bag         Left after peas are gone  Use to "bag" the cat
Moldy cheese          In mousehole in cell      Use to startup strange machine
Spells                From spell book           Use in magicbattle with wizard
Mordack's wand        From Mordack's bedroom    Use with machine in laboratory

                                     Points
                                     ------

How and where earned                                          Number of points
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Obtain fish in barrel in town                                                2
Find silver coin on street in town AFTER man fixing wagon leaves             2
Buy custard pie with silver coin                                             2
Throw fish at bear pawing at beehive to get him to leave                     4
Take honeycomb from hive AFTER making friends with bees                      2
Obtain stick from ground near beehive tree                                   2
Throw other stick OR shoe at dog pawing at anthill                           4
Drink water at an oasis in the desert (FIRST time only)                      2
Discover the temple in the desert (FIRST time only)                          3
Hide behind rock and observe bandit's opening temple door with staff         2
Discover bandits tents in desert (FIRST time only)                           3
Obtain staff from inside smaller tent in bandits camp                        2
Use staff to open temple door                                                2
Obtain brass bottle from inside temple                                       2
Obtain gold coin from inside temple                                          2
Obtain old shoe from desert near skeleton                                    2
Give gold coin to gypsy man to see fortune teller                            3
Obtain magic amulet from fortune teller                                      2
Find tambourine on ground after gypsies leave                                2
Throw either shoe OR stick at cat chasing rat, thereby saving rat            4
Obtain gold needle from haystack AFTER ants found it for you                 2
Enter dark forest (FIRST time only)                                          2
Give the brass bottle to witch in dark forest to get rid of her              4
Obtain pouch of emeralds from inside witch's house                           2
Obtain small spinning wheel from inside witch's house                        2
Unlock and open small door in tree in dark forest with small key             3
Obtain golden heart from inside the small door in the tree                   2
Squeeze honey from honeycomb on ground near "eyes" in dark forest            4
Throw first emerald toward elf in dark forest                                2
Throw second emerald toward elf in dark forest                               2
Drop third emerald (in puddle of honey near Graham's feet) for elf           2
Follow elf through hive of tree (FIRST time only)                            2
Obtain pair of shoes from elf                                                2
Give golden heart to weeping willow tree                                     4
Obtain harp AFTER willow tree has turned into princess and left              2
Give spinning wheel to grandfather gnome and recieve marionette              4
Give pair of shoes to shoemaker and recieve cobbler's hammer                 4
Give marionette to toymaker and recieve sled                                 4
Give gold needle to tailor and recieve cloak                                 4
Obtain rope in the inn's cellar AFTER rat has freed Graham from it           2
Break lock on cellar door with cobbler's hammer                              4
Obtain leg of lamb from the inn's kitchen                                    2
Shake tambourine at snake to scare it away                                   3
Throw rock to overhang in mountains to climb to upper ledge                  5
Jump on rocks to cross frozen waterfall (FIRST tiem only)                    2
Wear cloak in mountains to keep warm                                         4
Eat HALF of the leg of lamb to combat hunger in mountains                    4
Ride on sled to cross crevasse in mountains                                  5
Give other HALF of leg of lamb to hungry eagle in mountains                  3
Get captured by wolves and taken to Ice Queen                                2
Play harp to Ice Queen to soften her heart and make her nicer                4
Throw custard pie in yeti's face to make him fall over cliff                 4
Use hammer to break off the piece of crystal in the crystal cave             4
Get captured by the giant roc, and taken to it's nest                        2
Obtain the golden locket from roc's nest                                     2
Obtain the iron bar from the beach above the hermit's house                  2
Fix the hole in the boat with the beeswax                                    5
Discover Harpy Island in the ocean (FIRST time only)                         3
Play the harp to the harpies to get rid of them                              4
Obtain the fishhook from Harpy Island                                        2
Pick up wounded Cedric from Harpy Island                                     2
Give the conch shell to the hermit to use as a hearing aid                   4
Land (or crash) on the beach of Mordack's island                             2
Use the crystal with the stone serpents to get past them                     5
Use the iron bar to pry open the rusty gate outside castle                   4
Play tambourine for Dink who grabs it excitedly and loses hairpin            3
Obtain Dink's hairpin from labyrinth floor                                   2
Unlock labyrinth door with Dink's hairpin                                    4
Obtain the bag of dried peas in the pantry cupboard                          2
Give the gold locket to girl in the wizard's kitchen                         4
Get captured by a blue beast to knock him out                                3
Use empty pea bag to "bag" the cat after distracting him with fish           2
Read the spells in the spell book in the library                             3
Obtain Mordack's wand from bedroom when he's sleeping                        3
Place Mordack's wand from bedroom when he's sleeping                         3
Place Crispin's wand on platter of the power-tranfer machine                 4
Pu the moldy piece of cheese in the machine to start it                      5
Use Crispin's re-energized wand to to fight Mordack in magic battle          4
Choose the "tiger" spell in magic battle                                     4
Choose the "rabbit" spell in magic battle                                    4
Choose the "mongoose" spell in magic battle                                  4
Choose the "raincloud" spell in magic battle                                 4
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
All total                                                                  260


                      King's Quest V was cracked by Crystal

                  King's Quest V Hint Book supplied by Watchers

		    King's Quest V Hint Book FIXED BY [RYGAR] 

