           ____               _______________   _______________
          /    \             /               \ /               \
         /     /\           /                //                 \
        /     /  \         /       _________//        _____      \
       /     /    \       /       /        //\       /    /\      \
      /     /      \     /       /        //  \      \   /  \      \
     /     /        \   /        \_______//    \      \ /    \      \
    /     /         /   \                \      \      \      \      \
   /     /         / mUb \                \      \      \      \      \
  /      \________/__   __\_________       \   __/       \_____/       \
  \                  \ /                    \ /                        /
   \                 //                      \\                       /
    \_______________/ \______________________/ \_____________________/
     \              \  \                    /  /                    /
      \              \  \                  /  /                    /
       \              \  \                /  /                    /
        \              \  \              /  /                    /
         \______________\/ \____________/ \/____________________/

                            P R E S E N T

                 S U P E R   S P A C E   I N V A D E R S


Typed by SIDEWINDER/LSD.
Manual supplied by TORCH/LSD.


THE POTTED HISTORY

SPACE INVADERS - the game that launched a thousand space ships, was
released to an unsuspecting world in 1978.  Previously, ATARI's PONG had
introduced the public to coin ops, but TAITO were determined to strike
back and regain the number one spot.  TOSHIHIRO NISHIKADO was working in
Taito's R&D department at the time.  He looked at Atari's Pong and felt
that recent microprocessor would allow him to develop a new kind of
game.  I thought it would be fun to destroy targets on the screen and
clear everything.  I also planned to have enemies which attack the
player and use diplomacy with human beings, this type of game didn't
exist before.'  He spent 10 months working on the project from September
1977 to June 1978 - 'Everything was new, there were no existing tools or
computers at the time, so we had to build everything ourselves.  First I
used tanks as targets, but because of the slow processing speeds of the
microprocessors then, it was difficult to make the targets turn around
and move smoothly.'   Influenced by the STAR WARS induced space boom
that was raging Japan at that time, Nishikado decided to use space
aliens as the targets.  SPACE INVADERS was so new and so different that
at first, Taito's game testers did not like it and Toshihiro was worried
that it wouldn't be a hit.  He needn't have worried - once released
(after a name change from SPACE MONSTER to SPACE INVADERS at the request
of the sales department), it sold like wildfire.  Production could not
cope with the demand and the market was flooded by pirate copies.  By
Autum 1979 it had peaked - INVADER mania had gripped the world, children
stole from their parents to play the game, executives stayed out at
lunch all afternoon playing INVADERS - it became a social problem.

Soon however many similar games were released which expanded the theme -
GALAXIANS, GORF, PHOENIX and dozens of others as many video
manufacturers were born.  Atari launched their 2600 VCS system which
gave (for the first time), near arcade quality graphics on
interchangeable cartidges.  Atari became an overnight sensation selling
literally tens of millions of VCS's all over America and Europe.  Video
games were here to stay.

Few games, if any, have managed to recreate the heart stopping
excitement INVADERS caused, the rhythmic thump - thumping as they
advanced down the screen getting quicker and quicker all the time, the
pulse of the laser as you dart from behind your ever crumbling shield to
pick off another row of alien scum and blast that mother ship for
maximum points.

Sadly, INVADERS was Mr. Nishikado's first and last microprocessor
videogame, the father of video games (now 47) moved departments within
Taito to work on amusement machines and smart card systems.

Today he thinks games have moved on - 'Graphically due to faster
processors, games have become very good, but I feel games themselves
have not changed very much, they all look the same more or less,
although occansionally some special games come out - I think TETRIS is
very good in this respect.  I heard DOMARK are bringing out SUPER SPACE
INVADERS from Taito for personnal computers and the SEGA MASTER SYSTEM.
I think this game is very good because it has a lot of features and
original game concepts.  I hope SUPER SPACE INVADERS will be as
successful in Europe.'


THE GAME
Invaders is a two player simultaneous shoot'em up with a host of new
features that expand if from the original.  You must destroy the
advancing aliens while dodging their shots.  Shoot the space ship that
goes across the top of the screen to collect exciting additional
weapons!

GETTING STARTED
For those who are unfamilar with Invader (where have you been?), the
object is to prevent the Invaders from landing at the bottom of the
screen.  They advance one row down each time they reach the edge of the
screen.  You can only have one shot on the screen at a time, (unless you
have a power-up) so be accurate with your firing.  Once you have cleared
the screen ('Attack Wave') the Invaders regroup and will try a new
tactic.  There are literally dozens of these so take time to learn them
all.  The secret to success is the extra weapons.  These are collected
by shooting the saucer that traverses the top of the screen.

After each three waves you will encounter either the Cattle Mutilation
bonus screen or the End of Level Guardian.

The Cattle Mutilation is zany fun as you attempt to prevent your cows
being kidnapped (cownapped?) by those pesky aliens.  As this is a bonus
level, you cannot be killed, but you can earn extra bonus by destroying
all the alien saucers and saving all the cows.

The Guardians are very tough customers indeed.  Try and get some extra
fire-power before entering this level or you will almost certainly be
destroyed.  Each Guardian has a soft spot where he can be damaged by a
direct hit but it is up to you to discover where this is.

HINTS AND TIPS

  -     Get double or triple shot for the End of Level Guardians
  -     There is a pattern which determines which weapon is dropped by the
        saucer.
  -     On expanding Invaders shoot alternate columns to prevent them
        expanding to triple widths.
  -     On the Cattle Mutilation level, the cow that is about to be picked
        up zips left and right as he feels the tractor beam.
  -     Also on this level the higher you let the saucer take the cow
        before shooting it, the higher the bonus.
  -     Watch out for hidden levels!

CONTROLS
Player 1 - Joystick in port 1 or Keyboard.
Player 2 - Joystick in port 2 or Keyboard.

KEYBOARD
        PLAYER 1                        PLAYER 2

        Z  -  Move Left                 N  -  Move Left
        X  -  Move Right                M  -  Move Right
        Q  -  Fire                      O  -  Fire
        A  -  Fire Special Weapon       K  -  Fire Special Weapon

End.
