                         SPACE QUEST III 
 
At the end of Roger's adventure in Space Quest II, he had narrowly escaped
death aboard Sludge Vohaul's asteroid fortress.  Entering an escape pod, he
rocketed away seconds before it burned up in the Labionian atmosphere. 
 
Shortly after blasting away, he discovered his oxygen supply near
depletion.  Making a last ditch effort to survive, he climbed into the
hibernatic sleep chamber with the hope that someone would find him soon. 
 
Now, an indeterminate amount of time has passed, and the small pod drifts
aimlessly through deep space.  Time stands still for our  hero in suspended
animation. 
 
                                3 

"This year for our vacation, I think we'll all go to Pheebut!!" 
 
"Huh?!" 
 
"B-But Dad!!  We wanted to go to Robertaland!!" 
 
"Shadup!!  You'll go to Phleebut and Like It!!" 
 
"Waaaaaaa!!!" 
 
                                4 
 
"We interrupt this hologram to bring you this hologram to bring you this
hypernews bulletin:  We have just been informed that  universally famous
software authors, those 2 guys from Andromeda, were abducted today by
software pirates!" 
 
"The reason for the abduction is not known as there have been no death
threats or ransom requests!  It is rumored, however, that the pirates were
under contract to the disreputable software publisher Scumsoft, makers of
such flops as Stuntfloggers, Aquatron and  Scumword...Company president
Elmo Pug could not be reached for  comment, as the location of Scumsoft is
shrouded in secrecy!!" 
 
"We now return you to our regularly scheduled hologram." 
 
                                5 
 
ALL SYSTEMS 
 
GETTING STARTED: FLOPPY DRIVES 
 
It is always advisable to make back-up copies of your master  program
disks, to increase the life of the masters and guard  against accidents. 
Follow your computer's instructions to make  copies of all game disks.

If you will be playing from floppy disks, rather than a hard disk, you will
also want to format a blank disk for saving games.  Follow your computer's
instructions to format a blank disk and keep it handy for saving your game
as you play.

MS-DOS

INSTALL THE GAME

Place your disk 1 (or it's back-up) into your floppy disk drive.  Type the
letter of the disk drive you just placed the disk into followed by a colon
and press ENTER (eg. A:).  Type INSTALL and press ENTER.  Answer the
onscreen questions using the up and down arrow keys to highlight your
selections.  You will be asked if you wish to install the game on your hard
disk.  If you do not wish the game to be installed on your hard disk, then
press ESC (to skip this step).  Otherwise enter the letter designation of
your hard disk (usually C) and follow the prompts.

Please Note:  The install procedure will write a file named RESOURCE.CFG to
disk 1.  For the installation to be completed correctly, DISK 1 MUST NOT BE
WRITE PROTECTED.  No other files on disk 1 are written or changed by the
INSTALL command.

LOADING INSTRUCTIONS

1.   If you are starting the game from floppy disk: Place disk 1
        into the drive, type SIERRA and press ENTER>

2.   If you are starting the game from hard disk: Type CD\SIERRA
        and press ENTER.  Next type SQ3 and press ENTER.

ATARI ST

LOADING INSTRUCTIONS

Please Note:  If you are using an Atari 520 ST without memory expansion,
you should not run your Sierra game with any desk accessories installed.

1.   If you are playing the game from floppy disk: Place disk 1 in
        drive A, open the disk by double-clicking on its icon, then
        start the game by double-clicking on the SIERRA.PRG.

2.   If you are playing the game from a hard disk: Open the disk
        by double-clicking on its icon, then open the game folder by
        double-clicking on the game folder icon.  Start the game by
        double-clicking on SIERRA.PRG.

                                6

HARD DISK INSTALLATION

1.      If you are playing from a hard disk, first make sure you have
        enough space on the hard disk for the game -- single-click on
        the disk icon, then select Show Info., from the File menu. 
        Bytes Available should be at least 800,000 times the number
        of floppy disks included with the game.

2.   Open the hard disk by double-clicking on its icon.

3.   Create a game folder by choosing New Folder... from the File
        menu.  Open the new folder by double-clicking on its icon.

4.   Place the first game disk in drive A.

5.   Copy the game disk into the new folder by dragging the drive
        A icon into the window you opened in Step 3.  (Click on the
        drive A icon, while holding the mouse button down, move the
        mouse arrow over the open window, then release the button).

6.   Repeat steps 4 and 5 for each of the other game disks.

7.   Put the master disks away in a safe place.

CHOOSE A MUSIC DEVICE (Optional)

Your Sierra game is initially set up to play music and sounds through the
Atari ST's internal speaker.  If you have one of the supported MIDI
synthesizers, you may run the MUSIC program to have the game play music
through the synthesizer.

1.   Open the game disk/folder by double-clicking on its icon.

2.   Run the MUSIC program by double-clicking on the MUSIC.PRG
        icon.

3.   Select "Music Device" from the Options menu.

4.   Select your synthesizer (or "Atari ST Internal Sound") by
        clicking on the appropriate button.  Then click OK>

5.   Select "Install Game" from the File menu.  This will replace
        the RESOURCE.CFG file on your disk.

   Please Note: It is important to turn your synthesizer on before
        playing the game.

AMIGA

LOADING INSTRUCTIONS

From Floppy Disks:

1.   Boot your system with Workbench, then insert the game disk in
   any drive.

2.   Position the mouse pointer over the game disk icon and double-
        click.

Please Note: If your game has more than one disk, RENAME your copies of all
game disks to remove the words "COPY OF" from the disk name.  If the words
"COPY OF" are not removed from the disk names of all the copies, the system
will continue to ask for the original disk and will not run the game.

From Hard Disk:

1.   Load Workbench and double-click on your hard drive icon.

2.   Double click on the SIERRA drawer.

3.   Click on the drawer for the desired Sierra game.

4.   Click the game icon.

                                7

MOVING YOUR CHARACTER

You may move your character on the screen with the arrow keys, the numeric
keypad, or the mouse.  To halt your character's steps with the keypad,
press the number 5, or press the last used direction key again.  Using the
mouse, start movement by clicking the left mouse button where you want the
character to move.

                          NW           N          NE
                              \        |         /
                               ____  ___  ____
            N                  ||_7_||_8_||_9_||
            ^                  |/___\/___\/___\|
            |             W -- ||_4_||_5_||_6_|| -- E
    W  <--- | ---> E           |/___\/___\/___\|
            |                  ||_1_||_2_||_3_||  5----Stop
            S                  |/___\/___\/___\|
                                        
                              /        |         \
                            SW         S          SE
                                                                     

At times it may be useful to slow down the speed of the game animation in
order to negotiate a tricky section, or observe something more carefully. 
In Space Quest III, speed is controlled by the + and - keys, or by
selecting a choice from the Speed menu, using the mouse or arrow keys.

                                8

SHORT CUTS FOR COMMON COMMANDS

You can use function and control keys to short cut many common commands.

   F1      Help

   F2      Toggle Sound on/off

   F3      Repeat previous command

   F5      Save Game

   F7      Restore (saved) Game

   F9      Restart Game (from beginning)

   CTRL-C   Cancel typed command line

   CTRL-I   Inventory

   CTRL-J   Reset Joystick

   CTRL-P   Pause Game

   CTRL-Q   Quit Game

   CTRL-R   Toggle RGB/Composite graphics mode

   CTRL-S   Change Speed

   CTRL-V   Change Volume

   +      Increase Volume

   -      Decrease Volume

   =      Normal Volume

                              MENUS

When you press ESC, a menu bar will appear at the top of your screen with
several menus which can be opened to show the command choices available to
you.

USING KEYS IN THE MENUS

Use the left and right arrow keys to open a menu, and the up and down arrow
keys to highlight items within a menu.

Press ENTER to select a highlighted command.

Press ESC to return to the game without choosing a command.

INTERACTING WITH THE GAME

You may interact with the game by typing in commands of one or two words,
or in complete sentences. Unless otherwise instructed, follow all commands
with ENTER.

EXAMPLES OF COMMON COMMANDS

You may meet characters who have messages for you.  Start the conversation
with them.  Type: TALK TO (whoever you wish to talk to.)  For example, TALK
TO THE PIRATE.

You may encounter objects you need along the way.  To take an object type:
TAKE (the object you want to take).  For example, TAKE THE SILVER CHALICE.

                                9

Pay close attention to details.  Take a close look at objects.  Type:  LOOK
(the object you wish to examine).  For example, LOOK AT THE TREASURE CHEST.

You will need to use the objects you acquire on your journey.  Type: GIVE
THE (object) to (the person or thing you wish to have the object).  For
example, GIVE THE BONE TO THE HUNGRY TIGER.

RETYPING COMMANDS

If you wish to repeat a command select RETYPE from the ACTION menu or press
the SPACEBAR.

INVENTORY

If you wish to see the items you are carrying, select INVENTORY from the
ACTION menu or press the TAB key.  A list of the items you are carrying
will be displayed.  To view an object, click on its name with the mouse, or
use the arrow keys to highlight the name and press ENTER.  Select OK or
press ESC to resume play.

PAUSING YOUR GAME

If you wish to pause the game, select PAUSE from the ACTION menu. Press ESC
or ENTER to continue play.

SAVING YOUR GAMES

If you wish to save your game, select SAVE from the FILE menu.  To allow
for errors in judgement and creative exploration, it is recommended that
you frequently save your game in progress.  You will always want to save
your game before encountering dangerous situations.  You should also save
your game after you have made significant progress in the game.

Please Note: If you are playing from floppy disks, you must have a
formatted save game disk before you can save a game.

You may name your saved games using standard English phrases.  For example,
if you are standing on a sandy beach, call your saved game "STANDING ON A
SANDY BEACH", or whatever seems appropriate.

RESTORING YOUR GAME

Select RESTORE from the FILE menu.  You will be prompted to select the game
you wish to restore.  (On a single drive system, you will be prompted to
insert your save game disk.)  Highlight the desired game and select
RESTORE.  * If the game you wish to restore is on a different directory,
select CHANGE DIRECTORY.

QUITTING YOUR GAME

If you wish to stop playing, select QUIT from the FILE menu.

* If you do not have a mouse, use the TAB key to highlight games.

                               10

                TIPS FOR THE BEGINNING ADVENTURER

If you've never played one of Sierra's adventure games before, here are a
few suggestions to get you started.

                INTERACTING WITH SPACE QUEST III

You can interact with the game by typing in simple commands consisting of
as little as a verb and an object.  For instance, the command "get into the
rail grabber" can be shortened to "get in grabber."  The command "give six
buckazoids to the clerk" could be expressed as "give money to clerk."

Space Quest III will understand many common verbs.  Here is a list of some
you might want to try:

LOOK      DROP      EXAMINE      USE
CLIMB       GET      READ      TALK
HIT      PICK UP      PLAY      KICK
PUNCH      PUSH      PULL      MOVE
OPEN      CLOSE      JUMP      SIT
STAND      GIVE      PUT ON      TAKE
TAKE OFF

LOOK everywhere.  When you go somewhere you haven't been before, or where
you think you may have missed something the first time, the first thing you
should do is look around.  Whey you type "look" on entering an area, you
will receive a description of the general area.  Read this description
carefully -- often there is a clue to the game or an indication that
something in the scene bears further investigation.

If you are standing close enough to a particular object you can take a
closer look at that specific thing.  EXAMPLE: "look at the spaceship."
Press ENTER each time you type a command to enter that command.

A comment window will appear each time you enter a command, and at other
times during the game.  When you have read the comment, press ENTER to
remove the window and resume play.

EXPLORE each area of the game very carefully.  Search every area of the
garbage freighter for a way to escape.  Search each area of each planet you
voyage to, but carefully!  There are a lot of hazards out here in space.

DRAW A MAP that includes each place you visit, objects found, dangerous
areas, any and every landmark you see along the way.  If you miss an area,
you may miss an important item or clue you will need to complete your
quest.

                               11

TALK to almost everyone you meet, but use discretion!  Some characters will
be friendly and helpful.  They will give you valuable information and
advice.  Others may mislead, capture, or even kill you.  At times it may be
necessary to fight, at others to run away, hide or try to outwit your
opponent.

PICK UP anything that isn't nailed down.  You'll come across a number of
objects that will be of use later in the game.  Some of these can be picked
up, others may have to be bought or traded for.  You can see an inventory
of items on hand by pressing the TAB key at any time.

USE the items you have picked up to solve problems in the game.  Some
problems have obvious solutions; if you're thirsty, take a drink of water. 
To purchase an item, you'll need some buckazoids.  Other problems require
more imagination to solve.

BE CAREFUL.  Remain alert at all times -- disaster may strike in the most
unlikely places.

SAVE YOUR GAME often, especially when you are about to try something new or
potentially dangerous.  That way, if the worst should happen, you won't
have to start all over again from the beginning.  (See your reference card
for instructions on saving your game.)

DON'T GET DISCOURAGED.  If you come to an obstacle that seems
insurmountable, don't despair.  Explore the game some more, then come back
later.  Every problem in the game has at least one solution, and some have
more than one.  Sometimes solving a problem one way will make it harder to
solve the next, and sometimes it will make it easier.  If you get stuck,
you might try backtracking to an earlier point in the game, the choosing a
different path. If all else fails, you can buy a Space Quest III Hint Book
from the dealer who sold you the game.

                               12

                          (WALKTHROUGH)

                             WARNING

The following documentation is for beginning adventure game players only. 
The contents include answers to some game puzzles and hints that
experienced adventurers may not wish to see.  Continue reading only if you
are having difficulty getting started with Space Quest III.

When the character has stepped out of the escape pod and the door closes,
you will have control of the character and the game will begin.

Press ENTER to remove the comment screen that appears after the pod door
closes.

Use mouse, keyboard or joystick to walk south (down) to the next area,
where several junk spaceships are stored.

                               13

While you are here, try looking around at your surroundings: 

Type "look"
Walk to the spaceships. 
Type "look at ship" at each one. 
Walk to a pile of junk. 
Type "look at junk." 
Walk to the crate in the left foreground. 
Type "look at crate"

From this area, walk east (right) to the next room.
Walk to the large gear in the left foreground.
Type "look at gear"
Walk to the giant arm in the background
Type "look at arm"

When you have explored all you want, walk to the right side of the room
until you come to a vertical conveyer that is lifting buckets up and out of
the screen.  If you stand close enough, in front of the conveyer, it will
catch you and carry you to a horizontal conveyer belt which leads to the
shredding machine.  At this point it would be a good idea to save your
game.

To keep from being thrown in the shredder, type "stand". Immediately type
"jump" to reach the rail above the conveyer.  Now you will be able to walk
along the rail to begin your exploration of the ship, but BE CAREFUL!  It
is still possible to slip and fall to your death.  NOTE: If you have been
using a mouse or joystick to move the character, you might want to switch
to the ARROW keys for tricky sequences like this one.

When you are up on the rail, walk west (left) until you come to an opening
in the ship's bulkhead.  On the other side, hanging from the rail, is a
rail-grabber car.  Walk close to it and type "get in grabber".  You are now
on your way to exploring your new environment.

Good luck, and remember, those Two Guys are counting on you!

                               14

             INSTALL PROCEDURE FOR AMIGA

INSTALLING THE GAME    

NOTE: RENAME your copies of all game disks to remove the words "COPY OF"
from the disk name.  If the words "COPY OF" are not removed from the disk
names of ALL the copies, the system will continue to ask for the original
disk, and will not run the game.

1)   Boot your system with Workbench and insert Disk #1 of your Sierra
   game.       

2)   Double-click on the disk icon, then double-click on the INSTALL
        icon.

3)      Follow the onscreen prompts, choosing your selection with the
        mouse by clicking once on the icon.

4)      You will be asked if you wish to install the game on your hard
        disk.  If you do NOT wish the game to be installed on your hard
   disk, select NO.  If you want to install the game on your hard
   disk, select YES>

5)   Using your mouse, select which hard drive you wish to install the
   game onto.

6)   Follow the onscreen prompts to complete the installation.

LOADING INSTRUCTIONS

From Floppy Diskettes:

1)     If you have less than 1 megabyte of memory for your Amiga,
   disconnect any external drives while your system is off.

2)   Insert Disk #1 into drive DF0:.

3)   Turn on your system.
       
From Hard Disk:

1)   Load Workbench and double-click on your hard drive icon.

2)   Double click on the SIERRA GAMES drawer.

3)   Click on the drawer for the desired Sierra game.

4)   Click the game icon.

============================================================================
         DOCS PROVIDED BY  -+*+-ROBOCOP-+*+- for MYSTIC PLACES BBS.
============================================================================
