~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
[RYGAR]   The Dox to **> 4D SPORTS DRIVING <** By Rygar/Science 451.   [RYGAR]

Greets: Gee Dee, Jake/TSL, Deathlok, IBM, Scout, Swayzar, TCM & Joker, Manx,
        Scooter, LSD, Andy, JAVAHEAD, Wormeater Y, Hoson, PiEmAn, WinterMute
        AndEverOn, Fashion Light, The Cool Dudes(!) At Key West, Florida!...

Notes:    1. CUBANS, DON'T STEAL MY INNER TUBES!!! YOU FUCKING "CUBAN" !!!

          2. Still looking for more couriers (just kidding! heh)

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


INTRODUCTION

Welcome to the proving ground. This is the place where you can really feel the
difference between good cars and the world's finest cars; where 55 isn't the
limit, it's just getting started; where every driver wants a "cherry," and
"lemons" don't even get to play. And it's no place for a driver who's too
timid to get it up to 100 MPH on the loop, afraid to take the pipe upside
down, or scared of a little "friendly" competition.

The "Stunts" proving ground has two features that make it like no other in the
world. It can be built almost any way you want it. And each track can be
filled with fun, exciting and destructive stunts that can smash your car to
pieces in a matter of seconds. So if you want to take a car around the track,
you have to have the guts to get up to speed and the restraint to keep from
going over the edge. Don't forget to buckle up.


BEGINNING PLAY

See the included reference card to find out about how to load the game onto
your hard disk, or how to play from floppy disks. (Reference Card at the end
of this textfile - [RYGAR].)

Your Reference Card will also include information on how to control your car,
as well as the conventions of using the keyboard, mouse or joystick throughout
the game.

Once you are on the main screen, you can begin driving immediately on the
standard track by clicking on the car in the center of the screen. To select a
new track, or create your own, select the sign labeled "Track," then see page
13 for instructions on how to use the Track Editor. If you'd like to change
the car you're driving, select the sign labeled "Auto," then see page 7 for
descriptions of your possible car selections. If you'd like to race against an
opponent, rather than race against the clock, select the sign labeled
"Opponents," then see page 12 for descriptions of your competition. Choose
"Option" to return to DOS or to see a list of options available throughout the
game. See the Reference Card for more information about these options, which
include setting the graphic level/animation rate, changing background scenery
and loading replays, along with sound and input settings.


DRIVING THE COURSE


DRIVING TIME
~~~~~~~~~~~~
Each track has its own "Best Times" listing, found on the track selection
screen. Your goal is to be on it. Your real goal is to be on the top of it. Of
course, you'll have to finish the course to even have a time.

The "Best Times" list will show your name, the car you drove to achieve your
time, the opponent you raced (if any), and the time it took you to complete
the course (including penalty time, if any).

Some tracks will have forks in the road, giving you choices of how to complete
the track. Be forewarned that not all fork paths lead to the end of the race;
you might do well to preview a track before racing it (see page 13 under
"Track Editor"). In addition, previewing might give you a better idea of what
kind of car is best suited to the track.

You'll find that some paths of the trackmight be shorter than others, but the
difficulty of stunts along those paths may make them more time consuming than
they look, as well as more dangerous.

Ways to improve your best time include trying different cars on each path, as
well as different paths through each track.


PENALTY TIME
~~~~~~~~~~~~
Those drivers inclined to improve their times by skipping stunts should take
note- the track knows who cheats. After each race, you'll be assesses "Penalty
Time" for those portions of track (including stunts) which you missed. You're
allowed to swerve off the track now and then, but missing wholesale lengths of
tracks or entire stunts will cost you dearly.


TIPS FOR A FASTER TIME
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The amount of penalty time you accrue will depend on several factors. Missing
a jump or corkskrew will cost you more penalty time than missing three pieces
of regular track.

If you stray off the track, you'll see arrows directing you back onto the
track in the proper direction. If you get on the track going in the wrong
direction, you'll be told that you're driving the wrong way.

You'll only be assigned penalty time when you begin driving on the track
again. You may stray off the track and inadvertently cross other pieces
without penalty.

Become familiar with the handling of your car. Each vehicle has a different
ability to grip the road, and a different point in turning at which it will
spin out. Know that line.

Don't be seduced by the faster cars. Speed counts, but some courses make you
pay for your speed in off-road time and crashes.

Don't be afraid to try different cars. While all the vehicles behave
differently, they can all be mastered. Some track designs will call for
different kinds of cars, so go ahead and try them out.


QUALIFYING FOR A "BEST TIME"
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
In order to qualify for a best time, the track you drive on must meet some
qualifications. The track must be one of the tracks saved on your disk or hard
drive (in other words, you must be able to select it in the Track Editor under
"More Tracks), and the course you drive must exactly match the course saved
under the same name. This means you cannot jump into a race from the replay,
or drive a course only available in the replay and appear on the "Best Times"
list unless that course is also available in your Track Editor.


DISABLING THE SECURITY SYSTEM
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SLAM Return, HARD!!!! Cracked by Crystal!


                                  THE STUNTS
                                  """"""""""

THE PIPE
~~~~~~~~
Avoid the cement blocks by running up the sides of the pipe. Just make sure
you're back on the ground by the time you come out. Your initial inclination
will probably be to steer hard to one side or the other, but that path is
likely to put you into a spin. Slow, steady progress up the side is the best
plan. In the off-road vehicles, don't climb too high on the wall. Just see if
you can stay out of the way of the cement.


THE JUMP
~~~~~~~~
You'll need to gather speed for this, but don't overrun the down ramp, or your
bumpy landing may cost you time. Best speed is between 90 and 130 MPH. Yes,
you can hit the cables and crash.


THE CORKSCREW
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
You can go as fast as your traction holds, but you must be going at least 60
MPH in order to get through this stunt. If you keep flying out the end, try
slowing down.


THE SLALOM
~~~~~~~~~~
Although the LM-002 may (or may not) be able to run through these cement
blocks (we wouldn't recommend it), you will likely have better luck with a
tight cornering car. Each vehicle will have a different optimum speed for
this, and your stunt driving ability will have a lot to do with it as well.


THE BOULEVARD
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
One side or the other should work; avoid driving straight.


THE BANKS
~~~~~~~~~
The straightaways are relatively simple; just stay on them. The curves are a
little more dangerous. Depending on your vehicle, you'll want to keep at a
maximum of 90 MPH or so. Again, be careful not to oversteer; it's easy to miss
large chunks of road on banked curves and incur high time penalties.


THE LOOP
~~~~~~~~
No, speeding up to 140 MPH for this won't help you get through it. The key is
control while you are driving through the loop. Less than 60 MPH may cause you
to fall out at the peak, while more than 110 MPH will probably shoot you out
the side at escape velocity. You'll probably want to steer right very gently
as you go through this.


THE OTHER SURFACES
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Indy and Formula One tracks are not made of dirt. Take one of these cars out
on a dirt track to find out why. Dirt and ice tracks are the home of the off-
road vehicles, but some of the road cars will work fairly well on this type of
track too. We leave it to you to find out which.


THE ELEVATED ROADS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Standard suspension bridges come in two flavors: translucent for those who
wish to see what they're driving over, and opaque for those who are afraid of
heights.

While a straight bridge is no trouble at all, watch out for suspended curves;
they come up quickly and have a maximum speed of about 50 MPH


THE SPIRAL
~~~~~~~~~~
Reminiscent of the spiral parking garage ramp. 50 MPH should be acceptable if
you've practiced. They really are only one 360 degree turn, although they seem
like forever when you go through them.


THE TUNNEL
~~~~~~~~~~
When this stunt is isolated, any car can negotiate it. However, it can be
particularly dangerous after an icy curve. The best car for this stunt depends
on what cruelty was in the mind of the track creator


                              CHOOSE YOUR CAR
                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
When you choose to select a car, you'll see a screen displaying the current
car, an acceleration curve (showing how quickly the displayed vehicle
accelerates), some statistics on the car (including top speed and suggested
retail price), and a set of buttons.

Select DONE if you wish to drive the displayed car exactly as shown. Select
NEXT or LAST to cycle through the eleven available cars. You will be shown one
car at a time; continue using these buttons until the desired car is
displayed. Select COLOR if you wish to change the color of the car. Select the
AUTO/MANUAL button to toggle between automatic transmission and manual
transmission; whichever mode is displayed when you select DONE is what you'll
be driving.

Once you select DONE, we'll truck your selected vehicle out to the track, then
leave the driving to you. You'll be returned to the Main Menu. You then can
get to the track by selecting "Let's Drive".


RACING CARS

You'll find these cars in Indianapolis and Datona, at Le Mans and Detroit
driving in the Prototype and Indy-type races. Burn it up on the straightaways
and get great ground effects in the tunnels, but watch for slippery road and
be ready to decelerate quickly.


PORSCHE MARCH INDY
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Rear-mounted engine; Rear-wheel drive; Dual overhead cam V-8, 2649 cc, 720 HP
turbo engine; 0-60 2.9 seconds; Top speed: 230 MPH; Price $420,000.


JAGUAR XJR9 IMSA
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Rear-mounted engine; Rear-wheel drive; Dual overhead cam Flat 6, 3500 cc, 520
HP turbo engine; 0-60 2.9 seconds; Top speed: 215 MPH; Price $325,000.


PORSCHE 962 IMSA
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Rear-mounted engine; Rear-wheel drive; dual overhead cam Flat 6, 3500 cc 525
HP turbo engine; 0-60 2.8 seconds; Top speed: 215 MPH; Price $275,000.


ROAD CARS

Just your everyday type of vehicle. You might see one of these on the road.
Perhaps you even drive one yourself.


LAMBORGHINI COUNTACH
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Mid-mounted engine; Rear-wheel drive; Dual overhead cam V-12, 5162 cc, 420 HP
engine; 0-60 4.7 seconds; Top speed: 183 MPH; Price $150,000.


ACURA NSX
~~~~~~~~~
Mid-mounted engine; Rear-wheel drive; Dual overhead cam V-6, 3000 cc, 270 HP
engine; 0-60 5.2 seconds; Top speed: 165 MPH; Price $60,000.


FERRARI GTO
~~~~~~~~~~~
Mid- mounted engine; Rear-wheel drive; Dual overhead cam V-8,2855cc, 394 HP
turbo engine; 0-60 4.7 seconds; Top speed: 190 MPH; Price $74,000.


PORSCHE CARRERA 4
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Rear-mounted engine; 4-wheel drive; Single overhead cam Flat 6, 3600 cc, 250
HP engine; 0-60 5.8 seconds; Top speed: 161 MPH; Price $69,500.


CORVETTE ZR-1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Front-mounted engine; Rear-wheel drive; Dual overhead cam V-8, 5727 cc, 375 HP
engine; 0-60 4.9 seconds; Top speed: 172 MPH; Price $50,000.


OFF-ROAD VEHICLES

The Lancia and Audi are well-known in Europe for their many successful
appearances in off-road rallies. The Lamborghini was designed for military
use. While this model doesn't launch rockets, it may drive like one.


LANCIA DELTA INTEGRALE
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Front-mounted engine; 4-wheel drive; Dual overhead cam 16v, 1995 cc, 200 HP
engine; 0-60 6.1 seconds; Top speed: 137 MPH; Price $40,700.


AUDI QUATTRO
~~~~~~~~~~~~
Front-mounted engine; 4-wheel drive; Dual overhead cam INLINE-5, 2133 cc, 220
HP engine; 0-60 6.1 seconds; Top speed: 145 MPH; Price $60,000.


LAMBOURHINI LM-002
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Front-mounted engine; 4-wheel drive; Dual overhead cam V-12, 5167 cc, 444 HP
engine; 0-60 7.7 seconds; Top speed: 126 MPH; Price $120,000.


USE THE REPLAY CAMERA

You can record up to 10 minutes of driving in the video replay. If you take
longer than 10 minutes to complete a course, you'll be interrupted while
driving with a query whether you want to review your race so far or continue
driving. If you review, you'll be allowed to return to your race with no
penalty (if you continue from the point at which you stopped). If you choose
not to review your race, every 20 seconds that you continue driving beyond the
prompt will erase 20 seconds of saved replay from the beginning of your race.


THE REPLAY PANEL


REWIND/FAST FOREWARD
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Use the "Rewind" button to set the Replay Camera to any point in the race. As
you rewind, you'll notice the counter moving backwards in time. Once you
release the "Rewind" button, there will be a slight delay while the computer
locates that exact point in the race. Once you have brought up the desired
point in the race, you can either watch your performance ("Play") or assume
control of the car from that point, driving to the end of the race (See
"Continue Driving" on page 11).

Once you have rewound, you can use the "Fast Foreward" button to move to a
point later in the replay in much the same way.


PLAY
~~~~
"Play" lets you view the race you just finished. While in play mode (or while
paused), you can change the camera view, as well as the manual camera angle.
Press "R" to show or hide the replay panel; press "D" to show or hide the
dashboard.


FAST PLAY
~~~~~~~~~
"Fast Play" allows you to move through the replay at a faster speed, while
still seeing your driving performance. This button is useful for cueing up a
particular spot in your race. You can also change the camera mode while in
this viewing mode.


CAMERA SELECTION
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Press "C" to move between the different camera views. You can do this either
while in "Play" or "Stop" mode.

Inside the Car: This option gives you the same perspective you had while
driving the race. Press "R" to remove the Replay panel, and relive the moment
completely.

Overhead Camera: This option allows you to view your race from a position
directly above your vehicle. This view is particularly useful if you crashed
and burned and have no clue why it happened.

Track Cams: Get the feeling of the raceway from the Track Cams, automatically
placed by the computer at strategic points throughout every track. Watch
yourself race as if you were one of the crowd.

Manual Settings: Using this option, you can set the camera at any angle. Click
on the buttons to pan or zoom if you are using a mouse or joystick. See the
reference card for keyboard controls.    

Change Graphic Level: This option changes the trade-off of how quickly your
screen refreshes versus how far away you can see. If this is confusing, just
choose this option (or press "CTRL-G" while driving) until you're comfortable
with how the game is displayed.


TOGGLE CAR VIEW
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
This item will only be available when you are racing against an opponent
(rather than just against the clock). It will allow you to toggle between
watching yourself run the race and watching your opponent. You can watch one
car run the entire race, or you can toggle at a specific point in time within
the race to view comparative positions on the course.


MAIN MENU
~~~~~~~~~
This option brings you back to the main menu, where you can select any area of
the game-tracks, opponents or cars.


LOAD REPLAY
~~~~~~~~~~~
View any saved replay using this option. When you choose this selection,
you'll be given a list of replays in the current directory. Highlight the
desired replay using the cursor keys and press "Enter" to load. You can then
use the regular Replay Panel to view the replay as you normally would.


SAVE REPLAY
~~~~~~~~~~~
When your crash and burn is awe-inspiring, you can save it to show your
friends (or yourself) later. When you choose this option, you'll be prompted
to insert a name for the file. It will be saved in the same directory as
"Stunts" as a ".rpl" file. WARNING: Selecting any option but this (or "Return
to Replay") will erase your replay unless it has been saved.


DISPLAY OPTIONS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Hide/Show Dashboard: At any point in the replay, you can remove the dashboard
from the screen or make it reappear by selecting this item. This feature is
also available by pressing "D" on the keyboard during the replay (or while you
drive).

Hide/Show Replay Panel: Like the command above, this menu item toggles the
display of the replay panel on and off. Press "R" to access this feature from
the keyboard.

Change Camera Angle: This option operates from the menu to change the camera
angle as described on page 10 under camera selection.


THE MENU


RETURN TO PLAY
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Use this choice to erase the menu and move the cursor back to the main Replay
panel.


RETURN TO EVALUATION
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Choose this to review your evaluation (time, penalty, speed, opponent's
judgement of your performance, etc.). Once you leave the replay, this
information disappears, so if you have any questions, better check now.


RE-START DRIVING
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
This selection allows you to immediately begin the race again, using the same
track, same car and same opponent (if any). Your replay and evaluation will be
erased.


CONTINUE DRIVING
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
This option will only be highlighted if you have previously set the replay to
a point in the race (using the "Rewind" button). You may then assume control
of the car and complete the race; the replay of your initial race from this
point foreward will be erased and replaced with this completion of the race.
Once you have completed the race a second time, you can view your driving
performance from start to finish as if it were one continuous race. You will
not, however, be able to enter an "edited" race on the "Best Times" list.


THE OPPONENTS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
If you'd like to see if you're up to the caliber of other drivers around, you
can choose to race any one at a time. Each has different abilities and areas
of expertise; a driver's best time will vary with the type of course and car
chosen.

When you're racing against an opponent, you'll need to know where they are on
the track. Whenever an opponent is within 50 feet of you, you'll see an
indicator appear on your screen. This will show his or her position relative
to you. Of course, if they blow by you, you'll be able to see their tail
lights and smell their exhaust.


"SQUEALIN" BERNIE RUBBER

The worst driver at the proving ground (except maybe you). Once you've beaten
him...well...you're just getting started.


HERR OTTO PARTZ

This European driver has trouble with aerial stunts or elevated road, but
could blow your doors off on a flat track.


"SMOKIN'" JOE STALLIN

Be sure to make up ground on the straightaways, because the way Joe handles
curves is a thing of beauty.


CHERRI CHASIS

She's just in it for the speed. She lives for straightaways, but thinks
corners are annoying.


HELEN WHEELS

She makes a trip around the course seem like a demolition derby. The big
challenge is in staying out of her way.


SKID VICIOUS

The best driver on the course (except maybe rygar). When you've outperformed
this driver, your name truly deserves to be on the "Best Times" list.




BUILDING YOUR TRACK


SELECTING/PREVIEWING A TRACK
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
When you select "Track" from the main menu, you'll have the option to select a
new track from those already built, edit or create a track, or exit to the
main menu. While on this screen, You'll see a bird's-eye view of the currently
selected track.

If you'd like to drive a different track, select the button labeled "More
Tracks". Choose one of the tracks shown (or type in the subdirectory name
after "Path:" if you have tracks stored in a subdirectory). You'll see that
the track shown in the background has now changed to the one just chosen. Now
is an excellent time to look for difficult spots, before they come upon you at
120 MPH.


USING THE TRACK EDITOR
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
When you select the Track Editor, you'll see two major components on the
screen: the track window on the left, and the palette on the right. Use the
joystick or the mouse keypad to move the cursor between these two areas of the
screen.

You'll also see the piece currently under the cursor described directly below
the track window.

Select a piece of track in the palette by clicking on it with the mouse or
joystick, or using the cursor keys to move the highlight to it and pressing
the ENTER or RETURN key.

Use the Joystick or Mouse to move the cursor over to the track window, then
move the cursor to the square where you'd like the selected piece placed.
Notice that the cursor is now flashing the selected piece over the current
track window square. Press ENTER or RETURN, or click the mouse or joystick
button to place the selected piece on that track window square.

You will notice that some pieces are more than one square in size. Look
closely when placing these pieces to see how the cursor flashes the selected
piece. The area over which the cursor flashes the selected piece is the area
upon which it will be placed.

If the piece you wish to select is currently placed somewhere in the track
window, you can move the cursor over it and doubleclick the mouse, joystick or
ENTER key to select it, rather than jumping to the palette.


THE TRACK WINDOW
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Each track is on a 30x30 grid of squares which covers a virtual area of
approximately 1 square mile. You can see an 11x12 window of that area in the
Track window at any time. To scroll that window around the track, use the
mouse or joystick to move the scroll bars located below and to the right of
the window, or use the cursor keys to move the cursor beyond the edge of the
window. You can use any square in the grid to place track or scenery except
corners of plateau (edges of plateau also have some restrictions) and water.


PALETTES
~~~~~~~~
You can cycle through the palettes by pressing the "+" and "-" keys on the
keypad, using the scroll bar directly under the palette window (see "Buttons"
below), or pressing the F1 through F10 keys.

Your palettes provide you with the tools to load, edit, and save a track, as
well as the option to quit back to the main menu or create a brand new track.


BUTTONS
~~~~~~~
The buttons to Load, Save, (create) New, Exit and Change Palette are always
available, regardless of which palette you are using (Change Palette is the
scroll bar positioned just below the construction tiles and above the other
buttons).

SAVE allows you to save the current track on which you are working. If, when
saving a track, you choose a name currently used for another track, you will
be asked if you wish to choose another name.

LOAD allows you to work or race on a currently existing track. When you choose
this option, you will be shown a list of existing tracks in the current
directory. Highlight the desired track using the up and down cursor keys, then
press ENTER or RETURN to select.

NEW is the first step in building a new track. When selecting this button, you
will first be given a set of backgrounds upon which to build your track. Each
track requires and is allowed one (and only one) start/finish line, though the
paths to get from and to that line may be many. You may not build track on
water other than bridges, and you may not build track on the side of hills
other than pieces going directly up the hill. Other than that, you're pretty
free. Road can abruptly end, fork or rejoin. There are some restrictions
placed on the building of stunts; for more information on these, see each
individual stunt listed below.

EXIT brings you back to the main screen, BUT DOES NOT AUTOMATICALLY SAVE ANY
CHANGES YOU MAY HAVE MADE TO A NEW TRACK. If you have not saved changes to the
track, it will prompt you to do so.

To use the Change Palette button, position the cursor over the scroll bar in
the middle of the palette window. You may then use the left and right cursor
keys to change the palette (as well as the function keys or the "+" and "-"
keys).


BASIC BUILDING BLOCKS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Palette 1 contains the basic building blocks of tracks, including straight
East/West track, straight North/South track, crossroads, and four orientations
each of 90' turns, broad sweeping turns, 90' fork right and 90' fork left.
These pieces have no restrictions. It also contains the all-important
start/finish lines. You may only use one of these, but you must use one (from
either this palette or palette 2 or 3).


DIRT TRACK
~~~~~~~~~~
Palette 2 contains the same pieces as Palette 1, except that the road surface
is dirt rather than asphalt. These pieces also have no restrictions.


ICY TRACK
~~~~~~~~~
Palette 3, like Palette 2, contains the same pieces as Palette 1, except that
these pieces have ice-surfaced roads. These pieces also have no restrictions.


SLALOM, LOOP, PIPE, JUMP, TUNNEL & CORKSCREW
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Palette 4 contains six stunts: the slalom, the loop, the pipe, the jump, the
tunnel and the corkscrew. Each stunt comes in two orientations: East/West and
North/South.

The slalom, loop, tunnel, jump, and corkscrew may be placed at any point on
the track; there are no restrictions associated with them. The slalom and
tunnel make for more interesting driving when several pieces are placed
together in sequence. While it is possible to do this with the loop and
horizontal corkscrew, it is highly unlikely that a course so designed could be
successfully completed. So go ahead and try it.

Unlike the other stunts on this palette, the pipe is made up of four distinct
pieces: In, Through, Barrier and Out. You can place as many throughs together
as you like, but each string of Throughs need to be capped at each end by an
In and an Out. It's not just good sense, it's the law. The barrier piece is
what makes it fun; like a Through piece, it goes between the end pieces, but
it has a cement barrier on the ground side of the pipe. These are the pieces
that force the driver to go up the side of the pipe.


BANKED TRACK
~~~~~~~~~~~~
Palette 6 contains the banked pieces, both curves and straightaways. There are
two orientations each of banked right straightaways and banked left
straightaways, and four orientations of banked curves. Like pipes, banks have
an In and an Out, and any stretch of banked road must be capped at either end.


BROAD FORKS
~~~~~~~~~~~
Palette 6 contains four orientations of broad right forks and broad left
forks. These are pieces that fork more gradually than 90 and provide more
variety in steering the open road. There are no restrictions on these pieces.


BOULEVARDS AND "S" CURVES
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Palette 7 contains boulevards (two orientations) and "S" curves (two
orientations left and two orientations right). "S" curves have no
restrictions. Boulevards require end pieces capping any length of middle
pieces.


RAMPS & ELEVATED ROAD
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Palette 8 contains ramps and most pieces of elevated roadway. There are two
types of elevated ramps- regular and solid. Both perform essentially the same
function; selection is simply a matter of visual preference. Each of these
comes in four orientations (N S E W), and should be used to cap any stretch of
elevated road.

Elevated road comes in four varieties: regular, span, solid, and over road.
Again, the function of the first three types is essentially the same;
differences are in visual preferences. Elevated span over road allows you to
build tracks that cross without meeting.

Elevated corners come in four orientations and allow you to build prolonged
stretches of elevated track.


SPIRALS
~~~~~~~
Palette 9 contains Spirals, which act as another form of up and down-ramp.
These come in four orientations each of "spiral right" and "spiral left."


SCENERY
~~~~~~~
Palette 10 contains a variety of scenery pieces, including windmills, barns,
gas stations, restaurants, several types of trees, office buildings, factories
and tennis courts. Several of these scenery pieces come in four orientations,
one in each direction, so that they can face the road properly.





REFERENCE CARD
""""""""" """"

TO DRIVE


KEYBOARD

LEFT ARROW       TURN LEFT
RIGHT ARROW      TURN RIGHT
UP ARROW         ACCELERATE
DOWN ARROW       BRAKE
A                SHIFT UP
Z                SHIFT DOWN

MOUSE

LEFT BUTTON      BRAKE
RIGHT BUTTON     ACCELERATE
A                SHIFT UP
Z                SHIFT DOWN

KEYBOARD OPTIONS

CTRL-J           JOYSTICK MODE
CTRL-K           KEYBOARD MODE
CTRL-Q           QUIT TO DOS
CTRL-M           MUSIC ON/OFF
CTRL-S           SOUND EFFECTS ON/OFF
ESC              RETURNS TO PREVIOUS MENU OR
                 STOPS CALCULATING OPPONENT TIME
P                PAUSE
C                (IN TRACK EDIT)CHECK FOR ERRORS

WHILE DRIVING

D                SHOW/HIDE DASHBOARD
R                SHOW/HIDE REPLAY PANEL
CTRL-G           SET GRAPHICS LEVEL
T                SHOW PLAYER/OPPONENT CAR
C                CHANGE CAMERA VIEW
M                DRIVE USING MOUSE


END OF TEXT! RYGAR!!!


                            This file passed through
                                     __        __     __ __
                     |/\ |/\  /||_ ||  ||/\   |  | /||  || \
                     |\/ |\/ |-| |_||-| |\/   | __|-|   ||-
                     |   | \ | | __||__|| \   |__|| |  / |_/

                         long before you ever got it...

           L S D   U N I T E D   S T A T E S   H E A D Q U A R T E R S

                                 (501) 336-9661



