
                     F A N T A S T I C  V O Y A G E

                          from Centaur Software

             Docs brought to you by S K I D  R O W as well!

                       Call our boards WORLDWIDE!

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
                TECHNICAL SPECS (For those who appreciate them)

  o Assembly Code developed with DevTop 1.8 on an A2500
  o Gfx created using DPaint 3 on an A3000
  o Music composed and arranged using a Roland D-50, U-110, Korg Juno 2 &
    a DW-8000.
  o Total Level Size: 200 screens
  o Gfx Data: 2.5 Megs
  o # of Anim. Frames: 630 frames
  o Music Score: 700 K
  o Music Duration: 23 minutes
  o Sample Rate: 20 KHz
  o Screen Refreshrate: 60 Hz (NTSC), 50 Hz (PAL)
  o Max # of Blitterobjects: 48
  o # of Fadesteps: 166
  o ScanLoad Transfer Rate: >30000 bytes/sec
  o Project Duration: 9 months

          *** If you like this game, please buy the original! ***


                                 THE GAME

  The Cold War rages.  American and Soviet scientists are struggling to
develop and perfect a miniaturization technique which would allow them to
shrink armies and easily transport them to any spot on the globe.
Although the American scientists can miniaturize objects, the process is
unperfected and anything miniaturized returns to its original size within
an hour. However, Czechoslovakian scientist Jan Benes has the knowledge to
perfect the miniaturization process.

  After defecting to the United States from behind the Iron Curtain, Benes
suffers a brain injury when the East Bloc makes a final attempt on his
life. The secret U.S. Organization which is developing the miniaturization
technique, known as the CMDF (Combined Miniature Deterrent Forces),
determine that the only hope for saving Benes' life is to enter his body
and destroy a blood clot using a laser.  The CMDF can shrink men and
equipment to microbe size and plan to miniaturize the experimental
submarine Proteus along with a crew of doctors and scientists, inject them
into Benes' blood stream at the base of the neck and hope that they can
make their way to the brain for the operation.  Your mission is to pilot
the Proteus through the body to the brain.  There you must use a laser to
destroy the blood clot which threatens Benes' life.  You alone can insure
the success of the American CMDF program.

  Fantastic Voyage is a science fiction game composed of 3 levels.  You
must make your way through the body to the brain and remove the blood clot
which threatens the life of your patient.  Along the way, you must find
nine different pieces of a circuit board which you'll need to make your
laser operate in the brain.

  During your voyage you will encounter numerous obstacles.  The body sees
you as a foreign invader, an intruder which must be destroyed.  You'll
have your hands full defending yourself from the body's natural defenses.


                           LOADING INSTRUCTIONS

  Fantastic Voyage is played with a joystick plugged into the second
joystick port.

  To avoid the possibility of infecting your Fantastic Voyage disks with a
virus, always turn off your machine for a few seconds before loading the
game.  If using an Amiga 1000, first insert a Kickstart disk, insert
Fantastic Voyage Disk One in drive DF0:.  The introduction to the game
will run automatically.

  During the Intro you can press the joystick fir button to begin playing
the game.  Or, you can wait until the Intro is over and the game will load
automatically.  Insert Disk Two in drive DF0: when prompted.

  Never remove disks from the drive unless asked to do so by the program.

 In order to get maximum fun and excitement from Fantastic Voyage, we
strongly recommend that you play the game in a darkened room with the
contrast control of your monitor set to high.  Pump up the volume and turn
out the lights!


                         THE CONFIGURATION SCREEN

  Here you can use the function keys to control various aspects of the
  game:

  F1 is used to start the game after you've made the following choices:
  F2 selects the difficulty level (Beginner, Advanced or Pro).  The
     difficulty level determines how many hits the Proteus can suffer
     before it is destroyed and you lose a "life."
  F3 PAL/NTSC selects whether to play in NTSC mode (U.S & Canada) or in
     PAL mode (Europe, etc...)
  F4 Displays the High Score screen.


                                THE PROTEUS

  As the commander of the experimental Proteus submarine, you have awesome
resources and a wide range of powerful weapons at your disposal.  But, you
must locate and pick up both fuel and oxygen cannisters which have been
injected into the body in order to keep your Proteus operating.  Running
out of fuel or oxygen is fatal!  Gauges on the Proteus Control Panel will
give constant readouts of your fuel and oxygen levels.  Keep an eye on
them! The CMDF mission control personnel will monitor your progress and
will inject special weapons into the body which you'll need to pick up to
kill certain enemies.

  The Proteus has been engineered to withstand the extreme stress of the
miniaturization process and to some extent its shields can withstand
attacks from adversaries inside the body.  The amount of energy remaining
in the Proteus' shields can be seen on the gauge on the far right side of
the Control Panel.  Each time you kill three enemies without missing, the
energy level of your shields will be increased.  The Proteus Control Panel
also displays the current score and the number of "lives" the Proteus has.
The text readout window displays helpful messages from the CMDF Control
Room.

  You can pilot the Proteus through the body in eight different
directions. Just move the joystick in the direction you want to go. If
you're holding down the fire button and move from left to right, the
Proteus will move in the direction you're pushing the joystick, but the
Proteus will continue facing (and firing) in the same direction.  To make
a turn, let go of the fire button before changing directions.


                             KEYBOARD CONTROLS

  You can use the "P" key to pause the game at any time.  Press the "P"
key again to continue your voyage.

  The "S" key can be used to select either music or sound effects.  Please
note that music during gameplay is only available if you have at least one
Megabyte of Chip RAM in your Amiga.


                             THE CONTROL ROOM

The CMDF Control Room screen will appear before each of the three game
levels.  Here in "Mission Control" you will be able to see the current
location of the Proteus on a map of the body.  You can also examine the
monitors to keep track of how many of the nine pieces of the laser circuit
board you have collected.  Here you will also see a readout of your total
score, the elapsed time and your CMDF rating.  You can scroll around in
the Control Room by moving you joystick to the left and right.  You can
leave the Control Room and proceed to the next level by pressing the
joystick fire button.


                              TIPS AND TRICKS

  It is not always necessary to blast everything in sight to make your
way through the mazes.  Try to find ways to sneak past the enemies.

  You must pick up all nine pieces of the laser gun circuitry before
attempting to destroy the blood clot at the end of Level Three.
  Special weapons are required to kill certain enemies.  Always pick up
fuel, oxygen and weapon cannisters.
  Remember that killing three enemies in succession without missing
increases the energy in your shields.  Don't just fire randomly.


                                GAME FACTS

  Much of what you will see inside the human body during the game is based
upon scientific fact.  However, Fantastic Voyage is a mixture of fact and
fantasy.  In Level One you will experience graphics based upon electron
microscope photographs of the interiors of blood vessels and various blood
cell types like leukocytes and erythrocytes.  But, you will also have to
deal with cancer cells which crawl around and fire weapons.  You will also
encounter other hazards which are purely fictional creations.
  The backgrounds in the sub-atomic world of Level Two are based upon the
tracks created in the bubble chambers of particle accelerators when they
are subjected to beams of sub-atomic particles called neutrinos.  Other
objects in Level Two, such as protons, gluons, quarks and other particles
had to be artistic creations since no one has ever seen them!  Level
Three's backgrounds are based upon electron microscope photographs of the
brain's neural network.
