
                   /\_______/\___/\_____________  ______
                  //\\_ ___//\\ //\\_ ___/\_ _  \/\_ _  \
                 /     /\ /    /     /\ //      /    /  /\
                å____ /  å___ å____ /  ô___ /--/___ /--/\ \
                \ \ \/\ \ñ  \/\ \ \/\  /\ \/\ \ñ  \/ \ ç  /
                 \___ç  / \__ç \___ç  /  \_ç  / \__\  / \/
                      \/      \/    \/      \[sMUDGe]/

                              .oO TITAN Oo.

                                 Present

                        VALHALLA 2 LEVEL 1 SOLUTION

                                    By

                                 CYANIDE

First of all I would like to say that by the time you get this solution you
should all know your way around most of level 1 and should have a pretty
goood idea where evreything is, Well! on this basis I've done a fast but
detailed solution.

Turn right and crack the floor tile, pick up the "POTION OF FAITH" go up
and pick up "I AM INFINITY" Go to the hot coals and drink "THE POTION OF
FAITH" Go to the "SCALES" and pick up the "BOWL"  next them, pull the lever
and go through the door, pick up the "EGG" and go to the "OVEN" put the
"BOWL" on the "OVEN" and put the "EGG" in to the "BOWL" find the "JIGSAW"
and the "SANDER" and pull the lever in the wall, pick up the "CHEST KEY"
from the plant, now go right, past the "CARPENTER" and keep walking untill
you find the "SNAIL RACE BOARD" now go right and up and crack the floor
tile, pick up the "STRENGTH POTION" and go back to the "SANDER" drink the
"STRENGTH POTION" and pick up the "BOULDER" pick up the "FOUR LEAF CLOVER"
and drop the stones, you won't need them! Go back to the "SNAIL RACE BOARD"
and keep going right untill you find the "ORACLE" pick up the "FLOUR" and
drop the "FOUR LEAF CLOVER" in it's place, go through the door that has just
opened, go to the room at the end and crack the two floor tiles, pick up the
"CARD" the "COMPASS" and the "KEY" go back to where you picked up the
"BOULDER" and put the "COMPASS" on the "MAP" pick up the "ST. CHRISTOPHER"
and go back to the room with the "SUITCASE" put the"ST. CHRISTOPHER" on the
"SUITCASE" and pick up the "SAFE TRAVEL POTION" now go to the "ORACLE" stand
in front of him and walk straight down and pick up the "SOGGY CLAY" now go
back to the room with the "OVEN" and put the "FLOUR" in the "BOWL on the
"OVEN" go to the alter that is flashing behind you and put the "SAFE TRAVEL
POTION" on it, when the second one appears pick up the one you put down, go
back to the hot coals and open the door just above you, pick up the
"PICTURE" now step between the first two alters, a "PEARL" will now appear,
turn around and go back to the "JIGSAW" next to the "SANDER" put the
"PICTURE" on the "JIGSAW" and activate it, pick up the "PUZZLE PIECE" and
put on the "JIGSAW PUZZLE" between the two chests, pick up the "HEAVY BALL"
and the "KEY" turn around and go to the alter with the gold edges just below
you and put the "CARD" on it, pick up the "SNAIL" and go back to the room
where the "SCALES" are, and put the "SNAIL" on the "VASELINE" on the floor,
pick up the "SNAIL" and go to the "SNAIL RACE BOARD" and put the "SNAIL" on
it, pick up the "BURNT BOOK" and the "RUSTY KEY" and go back to the "SANDER"
put the "RUSTY KEY" on the "SANDER" and activate it, now pick up the "SILVER
KEY" and go back to the room where the "OVEN" is and open the door just
below the blue book, before you go down this passage go to your right where
you will find an alter with gold edges, put the "BURNT BOOK" on the alter
and pick up the "CONFUSION SPELL" now go to the passage where the blue book
is and follow the passage down untill you come to the two "ZAPPERS" in the
wall, stop in front of them and drinl the "SAFE TRAVEL POTION" walk through
and pick up the "SUGAR","SKULL KEY",POTION OF LIES" and the piece of paper
on the bench next to the "GOBLIN" now drop the piece of paper on the floor,
you won't need it, now go back to the "OVEN" using the "SKULL KEY" to get
out, put the "SUGAR" in the "BOWL" Now go to the "CARPENTER" drink the 
"POTOIN OF LIES" put the "CONFUSION SPELL" on the table in front of him, he
will then say "WHO ARE YOU?" stand next to him and look at him, he will say
"WHO ARE YOU?" again then you have to look at "I AM INFINITY" you can now
drop "I AM INFINITY" on the floor, you won't need it anymore, pick up the
"JEWELLED BOX" and go back to the room where the "OVEN" is, pick up the
second bottle of "SAFE TRAVEL POTION" from the alter, go back down the
passage to the "ZAPPERS" drink the "SAFE TRAVEL POTION" go through and put
the "JEWELLED BOX" on the bench next to the "GOBLIN" go through the door
that has just opened to your right and pick up the "DRAIN PIPE" just below
the "KILN" turn around and walk straight down and open the door, go through
the door and follow the passage all the way round untill you come to the
"SNOOKER CHALK" pick it up and open the door, now go back to where the
"KILN" is and enter the room just below and to the right of the "KILN" put
the "CHALK" on the alter with the gold edges and pick up the "SNOOKER CUE"
just outside this room is a book with stars on it! crack the floor tile just
in front of the book and pick up the "TEDDY" now go back to the room with
the "OVEN" Don't go between the "ZAPPERS" you will now have to enter and
leave this area where you found the "CHALK" go to the "DRAIN PIPE" and put
the piece of "DRAIN PIPE" your carrying on the floor at the end, go round to
the other end of the "DRAIN PIPE" and drop the "HEAVY BALL" on to the end of
the "DRAIN PIPE" go back round to the other end of the "DRAIN PIPE" and pick
up the "POTION OF FAITH" now go to the wall behind the "PEARL" thats got a
crack in it and use the "SNOOKER CUE" on the crack, now go round and get the
pearl, now go to the "SNAIL RACE BOARD" and put the "TEDDY" on the bed and
pick up the "SLEEPING PILLS" go back to where you found the "SNOOKER CHALK"
and go to the "INSOMNIACS" alter against the left wall just below you, put
the "SLEEPING PILLS" on the alter and pick up the "NIGHTMARE SPELL" go to
the "OVEN" and pick up the "CAKE" turn to your right and put the "NIGHTMARE
SPELL" on the table in front of the "COOK" when it dissapears put the "CAKE"
out the "CAKE" on the table, now pick up the new "CAKE" and take it to the
room where the "MAID" is (up past the ORACLE) put the "CAKE" on the alter in
front of the "MAID" pick up the "SAPHIRE" go to the scales and put the
"SAPHIRE" on them, pick up the "ZODIAC SIGN" and take it to the "ORACLE"
place the "ZODIAC SIGN" on the alter next to the "ORACLE" pick up the "VASE"
and go to the door just below the map (just to the left of the SANDER) open
the door, walk down and place the "VASE" on the alter opposite the other
"VASE" walk straight down and pull the lever in the wall, (You will see a
door open to the right, this leads to the "OLD MAN" and the "POTTERS WHEEL")

*IMPORTANT* NOW SAVE YOUR POSITION*

Now walk left, you will automatically be given "SAFE TRAVEL POTION" when you
come to the "ZAPPERS".

      I WON'T GIVE YOU ANY DIRECTIONS HERE BECAUSE IT'S ONLY A SMALL
      MAZE, IF YOU DON'T MAKE IT IN TIME ALL YOU HAVE TO DO IS RELOAD
      YOUR LAST SAVED POSITION.

Once you've got the "WIZARDS STAFF" from the chest go to the room with the
"POTTERS WHEEL" and put the "SOGGY CLAY" on it, activate the "POTTERS WHEEL"
pick up the "BOWL" go to the "KILN" and put the "BOWL" on it, now pick up
the "BOWL" and go back to where the "OVEN" is and put the "BOWL" on the
alter next to the "STEW" activate the "STEW" pick up the "BOWL OF STEW" go
back to the room where the "POTTERS WHEEL" is and put the "BOWL OF STEW" on
the table in front of the "OLD MAN" pick up the "COIN" and take it to the
"PIGGY BANK" where the "MAID" is, pick up "THE SWORD" and the "FAN" and go
to the "DUELLISTS" alter which is below and to the left of the "KILN" put
the "SWORD" on the alter and pick up the "JEWELS" now go to your left and up
untull you come to the "JEWELLERS" alter, put the "JEWELS" on it and pick up
the "POUND NOTE" now go to the three alters just to the right of the "KILN"
put the "FAN" on the top left alter, go round and pick up the "PIECE OF
PAPER" and go to the "WIZARDS CAULDRON" just below you, now drop the "PIECE
OF PAPER", "THE PEARL", "THE POUND NOTE" and the "WIZARDS STAFF" in to the
"CAULDRON" pick up the "BANISH SPELL" and go to the "HOT COALS" drink the
"POTION OF FAITH" walk over the "HOT COALS" and place the "BANISH SPELL" in
front of the "WIZARD" when he disappears walk up to the chest and Hey
Presto! LEVEL COMPLETE....


    PASSWORD TO "THE DUNGEONS" (Level 2) IS........PUMEL.

Well I hope this has helped some of you out, hopefully I will have levels
2, 3 and 4 solutions done pretty soon.

                                       ENJOY!!!

                                               CYANIDE / TITAN



                   /\_______/\___/\_____________  ______
                  //\\_ ___//\\ //\\_ ___/\_ _  \/\_ _  \
                 /     /\ /    /     /\ //      /    /  /\
                å____ /  å___ å____ /  ô___ /--/___ /--/\ \
                \ \ \/\ \ñ  \/\ \ \/\  /\ \/\ \ñ  \/ \ ç  /
                 \___ç  / \__ç \___ç  /  \_ç  / \__\  / \/
                      \/      \/    \/      \[sMUDGe]/

                              .oO TITAN Oo.

                                 Present

                        VALHALLA 2 LEVEL 2 SOLUTION

                                    By

                                 CYANIDE

First of all I would like to say that by the time you get this solution you
should all know your way around most of level 1 and should have a pretty
goood idea where evreything is, Well! on this basis I've done a fast but
detailed solution.

Pick up the tankard and crack the floor tile, pick up the chest key, go to
the alter and pick up the tankard, collect the tankard from the table in
front of the soldier and crack the floor tile, pick up the stamina go to
the other table, pick up the book and drop it on the floor, now leave the
the room and walk straight down and pull the lever in the wall, pick up the
last tankard, pull the lever to your left, now crack the floor tile behind
you and pick up the skull key, go to the drain just above you and drop a
tankard on it now activate the ale pump to your left, pick up the tankard
and do the same with the other three tankards, open the chest to your right
and take the piece of paper, now take all the tankards to the four soldiers
and give them one each, now take all the empty tankards back to the ale room
and stand in front of the drain and drop all the tankards on the floor
around you, now go to the corridor to your extreme right and pick up the
stick and the two chicken legs, go to the four soldiers and put the two
chicken legs on any of the tables, now go to the top of the poison river
walk over it and open the door with the skull key, take the bone from the
alter and go to the room directly below you, put the stick in the wall and
pull the lever, follow the passage around the portal cracking the floor
tiles as you go, you should have picked up three saphires and one chicken
leg, now step on the portal and go to the passage above you and crack the
two floor tiles, pick up one chicken leg, you won't need the other one, now
enter the room above and place the bone on the warlord Femur Link, now go
back to the four soldiers and put a chicken leg on each of the empty tables,
pick up the chest key and go back to the room with the two warlords, open
the chest take the translation potion and go to the soldier standing between
the two chests, look at him, when he says what is the password, drink the
translation potion and look at the piece of paper your carrying, take the
cross and the protection potion, and go back to the warlords and give the
cross to the warlord Angry Hours, now go to the poisoned river and stand in
front of the small break in the river, drink the protection potion and pick
up the poison, you can drop the piece of paer as you won't need it anymore,
now go to the ale room and put the poison in the ale, fill all four tankards
with poisoned ale and give the four soldiers one each, now enter the room
above, step on the left portal, you can now get rid of your three saphires
and pick up stamina, a chain and a will, cross the poisoned river and pick
up the stamina, step back on to the portal, drink a bottle of stamina, now
step on the portal opposite you, go to the torture room just below you and
pick up the watch, go back to the room where the two warlards are and give
the chain to femur link and the watch to angry hours, pick up the two chess
pieces and go to the chess room just below the torture room, stand in the
top left doorway and drop the rook on the square just in side the room, now
go to the bottom of the room and put the bishop on the square against the
wall that puts the king in check mate, get the saphire and go to the room
where you got rid of the other three, pick up, let him have it, and go back
to the torture room, stand in front of the soldier that's awake and look at,
let him have it, pick up the key and the shoes, you can drop the two bottles
of stamina and the, let him have it, because you won't need them for a
while, now go to the alter that says combination, pick up the, what's the
combination and drop it on the floor, you don't need it, now put the will on
centre of the alter pick up the cookie and go back to the ale room, put the
cookie on the drain and pour the poisoned ale on it, now go back to the
chess room and step on the portal, pick up the bee tray and the newspaper,
go to the combination alter and drop the bee tray on the alter to the right
of the will, now pick up one of your bottles of stamina and go to the room
where you got rid of your saphires, once your in the room save your
position, now walk along the poisoned river that is below you, drink your
stamina and open the door, turn left into the room and activate the camera,
go to the portal at the bottom right of the room and step on it, pull the
lever and go to the passage above the torture room and pick up, No, go to
the torture room, pick up the stick on the prisoner, look at the king, look
at no, go back to the camera room and put the stick in the wall below the
camera, pull the lever, go to the copier and put the news paper on it, now
pick up the piece of paper on the table below the copier and put that on the
copier, now pick up the new newspaper and go back to the king, look at the
king, drop the new newspaper in front of the king, pick up the crown and go
back to the room with the copier picking up the cigar from the chess room on
the way, put the crown on the crown stand, go through the door and pick up
the saphire, put the shoes on the warlord robin sole, pick up the orange
that is to the right and just below you, walk to your left and pull the
lever, walk up the poisoned river and pick up the eye, go back to the
combination alter and put the eye on it (eye, will, beetray)  :) drink
another bottle of stamina and save your position, now go through the door
that just opened, step on the portal, walk up, pick up the key and pull the
lever, go back to the portal and step on it, turn left and open the door
with the key, walk straight up and crack the floor tile in front of the ale,
pick up the note and turn round, walk down, turn right and keep walking
untill you come to a door, pull the lever and put the note on the tuning
fork, pick up the sharpand take it to the warlord in the same room you got
the note from, give the sharp and the cigar to the warlord, pick up the
stick and put it in the wall just below the portal, pull the lever, turn
around, pick up the piece of paper and step on the portal, look at the piece
of paper, you can drop the paper on the floor, you won't need it again, walk
left and put the orange on the fruit machine, now go through the door at the
top of the room and stop at the portal maze, * SAVE YOUR POSITION * now go,
N,E,W,S,W,S,W,N, go to the feeding bowl and drop the poisoned cookie in to
it, pick up the gold rings, and enter the passage above the dead cookie
monster, step on the portal, step off the portal, turn around, step on the
portal, pick up the saphire, step off the portal. turn around, step on the
portal, walk up and pick up the pear, put the saphire on the alter, go to
the top of the room and pick up the banana, turn round and pick up the
earth, now put the saphire on the last alter, now enter the passage to your
left, keep walking untill you come to a door, pull the lever, go through the
door and take the arrow from the table, pull the lever to your left, go
through the door and enter the room below, walk straight down to the warlord
and pick up the film, go to the fruit machine and put the fruit on the
machine in this order, banana, orange, pear, go to the camera room, use the
film on the camera and activate the camera, pick up the photo, go to the
portal maze and put the photo on the album to the right of the maze, pick up
the picture of the king and the comedian potion, enter the room below you
and go to the bottom right corner, pull the lever in the passage to your
right, pick up the joke, walk forward, go down past the copier, stand in
front of the soldier and look at him, when he tells you the joke, drink the
comedian potion and look at the joke, pick up the thermometer, and go to the
room where the fruit machine is, just below the four pillars there is
another room, enter this room and step on the portal at the bottom of the
room, enter the room and pick up the amplifier, cross the poisoned river,
now use, the gold rings, the earth and the thermometer on genesis picking up
each planet as it appears, step back on to the portal and drop the three
planets on the floor, you can also drop the joke, you won`t need it anymore,
go back to the torture room and pick up, let him have it, go to herman, look
at him, when he says I`m bored, look at, let him have it, when he says let
who have it, look at the picture of the king, you can drop the picture, you
won`t need it again, pick up the key and open the chest just above you, pick
up the book of icarus, you can also drop, let him have it, you won`t need
that any more, now go to the warlord in the room below the copier and give
him the arrow, take the luck potion and go to the fruit machine, stand in
front of the lever and drink the luck potion, pull the lever and take the
three apples, go to the portal directly above the dead cookie monster and
step on it, walk around to your left and step on the portal on the opposite
side, walk up to the liquidiser and put the three apples into it, pick up
the cider, and go back to where herman is and fill a tankard with ale, pick
up the tankard of ale and go to grumbleweed, put the amplifier next to
grumbleweed, give him the cider, stand on the amplifier and drink the
tankard of ale, pick up the fly trap and go to genesis, (where you got the
other planets) use the fly trap on genesis and pick up the planet, step on
the alter, pick up the other three planets, standing below the alters put
the planets on them in this order, saturn, venus, earth, mercury, put the
book of icarus on the sun, pick up hermans prophecy and take it to herman,
put it on the table, pick up the key and go to the door which is still
locked at the fruit machine and open it, pick up the money, now go straight
up to where the dead cookie monster is and go to the soldier that is sitting
at the table just above and to your right, give him the money, now go
through the door that has just opened above you, walk to the portal, step on
it and you`ve just completed level 2 :))


    PASSWORD TO "THE GALLERY" (Level 3) IS........BOMAL.

Well I hope this has helped some of you out, hopefully I will have levels
3 and 4 solutions done pretty soon.

                                       ENJOY!!!

                                               CYANIDE / TITAN



                   /\_______/\___/\_____________  ______
                  //\\_ ___//\\ //\\_ ___/\_ _  \/\_ _  \
                 /     /\ /    /     /\ //      /    /  /\
                å____ /  å___ å____ /  ô___ /--/___ /--/\ \
                \ \ \/\ \ñ  \/\ \ \/\  /\ \/\ \ñ  \/ \ ç  /
                 \___ç  / \__ç \___ç  /  \_ç  / \__\  / \/
                      \/      \/    \/      \[sMUDGe]/

                              .oO TITAN Oo.

                                 Present

                        VALHALLA 2 LEVEL 3 SOLUTION

                                    By

                                 CYANIDE

First of all I would like to say that by the time you get this solution you
should all know your way around most of level 1 and should have a pretty
goood idea where evreything is, Well! on this basis I've done a fast but
detailed solution.

Pick up the skull key, crack the floor tile to your right, pick up the
matches and the cement just below you, enter the room above you and pick up
the block in front of the mummy, crack the floor tile to your left and pick
up the stamina, now walk up and crack the floor tile below and to the left
of the toy box, pick up the chest key, pick up, please move, just below the
vampire, enter the passage in the room below and pull the lever, enter the
room and put the cement in the mixer, pull the lever below the tape recorder
now go left and up and pick up the pebbles, go back to the grinder and put
the pebbles on it, pick up the sand, go back to the mixer and put the sand
on it, now go through the door below and to the left of the tape recorder,
go to the alter above the conveyer belt and put the matches on it, go down
and crack the floor tile just above the ghost container, pick up the stick
and walk across the gunge to the left of the ghost container, pick up the
bino``s and the stamina, walk left and up and open the chest, pick up the
drain pipe, drink a bottle of stamina and go back to the mixer, put the pipe
on the floor between the mixer and the water, activate the water and the
mixer, pick up the cement and put it on the hole in the room where you first
started, open the door to your left, follow the passage all the way down,
put the stick in the wall and pull the lever, go through the door, pick up
the ghost trap and the stick thing, go to the alter at the bottom of the
room, crack the floor tile and pick up, where is m, go back to the room with
the toy box, put the ghost trap in front of the door to the left of the toy
box, put the block in the toy box, pick up the ghost trap, enter the room to
your left and crack the floor tile, pick up the fly, put the binos on the
alter, pick up the egg and pull the lever, go through the door at the bottom
and put the egg on the nest, go to the room where the grinder is and put the
fly on the web, pick up the spider and put it on the molecular stabeliser in
the room above you, pick up the key and open the chest that is in the room
to the left of the mixer, pick up the stick, walk down to the ghost
container and put the ghost trap on it, pick up the ghost trap and go to the
grinder, go through the door at the bottom left of the room, stop at the
gunge river and drink a bottle of stamina, now walk along the gunge river to
the right, put the stick in the wall and pull the lever, pick up the stamina
and enter the lathe room, put the stick thing on the lathe, pick up the
stake and go to the room below you, crack the floor tile just below the
brandy, pick up the stamina, pull the lever just below you and go back to
the room with the toy box, put the stake on the vampire, pick up the teeth,
go to the alter above the conveyer belt and put the teeth on it, pick up the
angry potion, go back to the grinder room and go out through the door at the
bottom left, walk across the gunge river, follow the passage around to the
left untill you come to a zombie blocking the way, stand in front of the
zombie, drink the angry potion and look at, please move, walk up and pull
the lever, follow the passage to your left, pick up the bell, walk down past
the vampire and pick up the musical score, enter the passage to your right
and pull the lever, go to the room to the left of the toy box room, put the
musical score on the alter, pick up the skull key, go back to where the
zombie was blocking the way, go through the door at the top, open the door,
pick up the stamina and the tape, put the ghost trap in front of the ghost
and activate the telephone below you,  pick up the ghost trap, crack the
floor tile just above you, pick up cupids bow and the bell from the alter,
go to the book below you and put the, where is m, on it, pick up where is
mestopolis, leave the room and turn to your left and stand in front of the
zombie, look at. where is mestopolis, go left and put the two bells on any
of the three alters, go left and pick up the santa hat and pull the lever,
go through the door, walk round and pick up the tennis racket, go back to
the telephone room picking up, is anybody there, on the way, put the santa
hat on the alter nicholas kiss, and the tennis racket on the alter martina
bronte, leave the room and follow the passage to your left all the way down
past the vampire and put cupids bow on the alter doctor love, go back to the
tape recorder and put the tape on it, activate the tape recorder, pick up
the feathers and put them on the floor at the end of the conveyer belt, pull
the lever below the conveyer belt, pick up the glass, put the ghost trap on
the ghost container, pick up the ghost trap and go to the room where the
brandy is, put the glass on the weejie board and look at, is anybody there,
pick up the stethascope and the hoover bag, go to the room below and put the
hoover bag on the hoover, leave the room through the door at the bottom,
follow the passage untill you come to the alter, doctor love, put the
stethascope on the alter, pick up the bell and put it on the empty alter
next to the other two bells, pull the lever, pick up the key, go through the
door below you, follow the passage untill you come to a ghost and drop the
ghost trap in front of it, now go back and open the door to the left of the
mummy where you just got the key, pick up the stamina and stand in front of
the gunge and SAVE YOUR POSITION.

Same again!! I won`t help you in the gunge maze, all I will tell you is keep
your stamina up and follow the path up through the middle of the maze, don`t
worry if you mess it up, you can always reload your last saved position.

Once you`ve got the key from the maze, go to the door just below the alter,
doctor love, and open it, go to the room at the end of the passage and pick
up the flower, enter the passage at the top left of the room, pull the
lever, go to the room at the end of the passage, pick up, kansas and the
gold chalice, while your standing on the pentagram face the wall at the top
and look at, where is mestopolis, you can drop, where is mestopolis, you
won`t need it again, go to the room with the brandy, fill the gold chalice
with brandy, go to the telephone room and put the flower in the vase, now go
to the room with the molecular stabeliser and give the brandy to the mummy,
pick up the potion of thieves, go to the vampire with, 1 june, on it, drink
the potion of thieves and pick up, 1 june, go to the room with the hoover,
take the book from the alter and drop it on the floor, put, 1 june, on the
alter and activate the hoover, take the hoover bag from the hoover and give
it to the vampire in the room to the left of the toy box, pick up the mirror
spell, go to the telephone room and put the mirror spell in front of the
zombie, pick up, mestopolis ring, and take it to mestopolis, put it on the
alter in front of mestopolis, pick up the mistletoe, go to the telephone
room and put the mistletoe on the the alter, nicholas kiss, pick up the,
invisible potion and go to the passage below the three bells, drink the
invisible potion and pick up, innocent and the telekenesis potion, go to the
room to your right where the alter, doctor love, is and you will see a grey
bottle which you cannot reach, face the grey bottle, drink the, telekenesis
potion and look at please move, pick up the, potion of evil and go to the
pentagram that is in the passage behind you, stand on the pentagram and look
at, kansas, enter the room and stand in front of the zombie, look at the
zombie, drink the, potion of evil, look at innocent, pick up the, piece of
zombie face, and take it to mestopolis, put the, piece of zombie face, on
the alter, pick up the book and go to the telephone room, put the book on
the alter, martina bronte, pick up the, ariel, and take it to the
television, put the, ariel, on the television, pick up the ghost trap, walk
across the gunge to your left and pick up the, skull key, go to the ghost
container and put the ghost trap on it, step away from the ghost container,
turn round and pick up the blood, go to the room where mestopolis is and
open the door below him, go through the door to the, soul stealer, and give
it the blood, pick up the soul and put it on the alter in front of
mestopolis, go through the door that has just opened, walk across the gunge
into level 4.


    PASSWORD TO "THE KINGS CHAMBER" (Level 4) IS........SAMOL.

Well I hope this has helped some of you out, hopefully I will have level
4 solution done pretty soon.

                                       ENJOY!!!

                                               CYANIDE / TITAN



                   /\_______/\___/\_____________  ______
                  //\\_ ___//\\ //\\_ ___/\_ _  \/\_ _  \
                 /     /\ /    /     /\ //      /    /  /\
                å____ /  å___ å____ /  ô___ /--/___ /--/\ \
                \ \ \/\ \ñ  \/\ \ \/\  /\ \/\ \ñ  \/ \ ç  /
                 \___ç  / \__ç \___ç  /  \_ç  / \__\  / \/
                      \/      \/    \/      \[sMUDGe]/

                              .oO TITAN Oo.

                                 Present

                        VALHALLA 2 LEVEL 4 SOLUTION

                                    By

                                 CYANIDE

First of all I would like to say that by the time you get this solution you
should all know your way around most of level 1 and should have a pretty
goood idea where evreything is, Well! on this basis I've done a fast but
detailed solution.

Pick up the bulb, leave the room and crack the floor tile just below the
monk, pick up the, laurel wreath, crack the floor tile above the lamp and
pick up the, apple, walk left to the door and pull the lever, pick up the
book just above you, crack the floor tile, pick up the, vanish spell and
drop the book on the floor, you won't nned it, walk left below the poison
river to the courtier, walk down to the kings knight, eve holywords, and put
the apple on him, go back to the lamp and put the vanish spell in front of
the kings night and put the bulb in the lamp, go down the passage that the
kings knight was guarding and pick up, also with you, go to the monk and
stand in front of him, look at the monk, look at, also with you, pick up the
flower and the stamina, go to the poison river, walk across itto the end,
pick up the key, put the, laurel wreath and the flower on the kings knight
ceaser petal, pick up the, stamina, now go to the door to the right of the
monk and open it, go through the door, take the sweet from the courtier and
drop it on the floor, enter the passage opposite the pianolla just below
you, crack the floor tile, pick up the, firework, keep walking to your right
and crack the floor tile, pick up the, rosary beads and go to the fountain
of confession just to the left of the monk, put the beads on the fountain,
pick up the, lords prayer and go to the kings knight eve holywords and put
the prayer on him, you can also drop, also with you on the floor as you
won't need it again, pick up the, stick, and go back to the passage opposite
the pianolla, (where you got the beads) go to the end of the passage, put
the stick in the wall and pull the lever, go through the door and crack the
floor tile just below the fountain of gemini, pick up the, balloon, pick up
the stamina, crack the floor tile just above you, pick up, the sword, and
put it on the hand, pick up the vanish spell and pull the lever, put the
vanish spell in front of the kings knight and put the sweetie in the sweetie
bowl, pick up, found watch, crack the floor tile and pick up the, watch, go
back to where the monk is and put the balloon on the wind stone, pick up the
balloon and give it to the courtier in the room to the right of you, (next
to the scales) pick up the, picture, go back to the room where the sweetie
bowl is and put the picture on the fountain of gemini, pick up the, k
potion, go to the kings knight, eve holywords, enter the passage opposite
him, pull the lever and enter the laser room, put the watch on the watch
stand, drop the found watch in front of the tanoy on the wall, pick up the,
prismatic orb, and put it on one of the lightning alters, now go to the
passage below the pianolla, walk down to the two levers, drink the k potion
and pull the left lever, walk all the way down and enter the kings room at
the end of the passage, pick up the, rose, pick up the, key, directly below
the king, walk left and take the, nightingale, from the table, go back to
the pianolla and open the door just inside the passage opposite the
pianolla, enter the room and crack the floor tile just below the courtier,
pick up the, cake, go back down the passage that leads to the kings room and
enter the passage opposite the monk and the book with the watch on it, drink
a bottle of stamina, pull the lever, enter the room and go to the kings
knight, fawkes eclair, pick up the, chocolate, and put the firework and the
cake on the knight, pick up the, D potion, leave the room and go all the way
back up the passage to the room at the top, drink the, D potion and stand in
front of the scales, pick up, I love you, and the, stick, go to the sweetie
bowl room, go to the bottom right of the room, put the stick in the wall and
pull the lever and enter the room below, crack the floor tile and pick up
the, vanish spell, put the nightingale on the nurses bag, pick up the,
throat lozenge, walk along the passage to the left of the nurses bag, pick
up the, H potion, pull the lever, enter the room, drink the H potion and
pick up the, flux capacitor, go to the laser room and put the, flux
capacitor, on the laser, leave the room and go to the courtier just above
the kingas knight, eve holywords, give the courtier the, throat lozenge,
pick up the, music sheet, go back to the room where the kings knight, fawkes
eclair, is and put the music sheet on the bed of nails, pick up the music
sheet and take it to the pianolla, put the music shett on the pianolla, go
round and pick up the, J potion, from the chest that just opened behind the
pianolla, go back to the kings room and enter the room below where the kings
knight, quasi da vinci, is  stand next to the courtier, drink the J potion
and look at, I love you, go through the door that just opened, walk along
the passage and enter the queens room below the monk, take the necklace from
the alter and put the rose in it's place, pick up the letter, leave the room
and crack the floor tile below and to the left of the monk, pick up the key,
put the letter on the alter next to the king, pick up the, hearing aide, and
give it to the courtier in the room to the right and just below the
pianolla, pick up the E potion, put the vanish spell in front of the kings
knight and put the necklace in the jewelry box, enter the passage that the
kings night was guarding and pick up the C potion, go to the kings room,
stand in front of the monk, drink the C potion, look at the monk, pick up
the white rabbit and put it on the magicians hat in the room below and to
the left of you, pick up the I potion go and stand next to the courtier on
your left, drink the E potion and look at, I love you, drop I love you on
the floor, you won't need it again, now go to the room with the bed of
nails, stand below the machine gun, drink the I potion and fire the gun, go
through the door that just opened below you, crack the floor tileto the
right of the poison bowl, pick up the umbrella, now enter the passage at the
bottom left of the room, walk along the passage, pull the lever and go out
through the door that just opened, enter the room to the left of the white
rabbit, walk to the far left of the room, pick up the picture and pull the
lever, go to the pianolla and walk along the passage opposite, go into the
room at the end and go through the door at the bottom, put the picture on
the fountain of opposites, pick up the emerald, open the chest, pick up the
paint brush, go along the passage below you and enter the passage below the
necklace, put the emerald on the alter, pick op the B potion, go to the room
with the bed of nails, stand in front of the monk and drink the B potion,
look at the monk, pick up the sceptre and put it on the alter next to the
king, pick up the sovereign and go to the fountain of kings just above the
pianolla, put the sovereign on the fountain, pick up the ank and go to the
fountain of egypt in the same room as the queen, pick up the emerald and put
it on the alter in the passage below the necklace, pick up notre-dam, and go
to the kings knight, quasi da vinci directly below the white rabbit, put
notre-dam onand the paint brush on him, pick up the vanish spelland go to
the far end of the passage to your left, put the vanish spell next to the
door and ring the bell behind you, now go through the door to the room at
the end, put the chocolate on the CYANIDE :) pick up the poisoned chocolate,
put the umbrella on the barometer, pick up the emerald, go to the queen and
give her the poisoned chocolate, pick up 4386, now go and stand in front of
the monk just outside the room, look at the monk, look at 4386, pick up the
prismatic orb and the holy ghost, go to the white rabbit and pick up the
prismatic orb, go to the passage just below the necklace and put the emerald
on the alter, crack the floor tile and pick up the F potion, pick up the
battery, go to the room to the left of the white rabbit and put the battery
in the charger, pick up the battery, go to the room below where the kings
knight quasi da vinci is and enter the passage below the kings night, follow
the passage all the way to the train, put the battery in the power pack, put
the vanish spell in front of the kings night just above you, go to the end
of the railway track and pick up the G potion, go to the princes room just
above the kings room, go to the prince and stand in front of the sun symbol,
drink the G potion, pick up the sun symbol, enter the room to the left of
the white rabbit, go to the fountain of the father, put the sun symbol on
it, put the holy ghost on itpick up the stamina just above you and drink it,
stand in front of the monk, look at the monk, drink the F potion, look at
4386, you can drop 4386, you won't need it again, pick up the prismatic orb
and the chalice, go back to the room where the train is, put the chalice
between the vanish spell and the poison bowl, activat the bowl, pick up the
chest key that the kings knight was gaurding, go to the princes room and
open the chest, pick up the book and put it on the fountain of einstein
where the CYANIDE is, (down past the queens room) pick up the A potion and
go to the room where you got rid of the emeralds, (below the necklace) stand
in front of the IQ test, drink the A potion and activate the IQ test, pick
up the superglue, go to the laser room and put all the prismatic orbs on the
remaining lightning alters, put the superglue on the floor between the
poison and the watch, pick up the, found watch, stand in front of the tanoy
and look at, found watch, now go to the laser, activate it and enjoy the
ending :))


Well I hope this solution helped some of you out, I still have the complete
solution and ascii maps to Valhalla 1 if anyone wants them, just leave me a
message on any of the TITAN boards ok?

                                       ENJOY!!!

                                               CYANIDE / TITAN


