

         		Prince of Persia Hints/Solve
		   by Cetu Javu & Cy Surflex  -  4/24/90
 
				

These are some basic techniques for playing the game.

        o When jumping, ALWAYS hold down the button.  You will never know when
          you shall slip or fall short of the jump.  Also, make yourself as
          close as possible to an edge before you jump so you can get maximum
          distance.

        o When fighting, the most effective way is to use the standard
          block-and-hit technique.  To do this, wait till the opponent strikes,
          block by pressing up, then immediately press the button and the
          character strike and get a better chance of hitting the opponent.

        o Inspect everyroom for secret passages.  There are many in this game
          and you will not be able to finish it without finding them.  To find
          them, jump up and down to look for any floor passages.  Jump up and
          hit the ceiling to look for any ceiling passages.

        o Doors don't stay open forever.  Once you step on a step-block, the
          doors will start to close. . .  that is unless something is on the
          step-block.

        o Learn to distinguish step-blocks from the floor.

        o After you complete each level (after Level 2), save the game.  When
          you die, restart by pressing Control-R and then press Control-L to
          resume your game.  This will allow you to save a lot of time
          considering that you WILL die.

        o Don't be afraid to explore.  In order to win the game, you must
          explore every detail of the game and not miss anything on any level.



Hints      Note - * means that there is an energy expander on that level.


Level 1

Your first level is very easy.  Get the sword, which is to the left from where
you start and then go to the exit which just to the right of where you start.
Practice your sword techniques on the guard.  Remember to watch for unstable
floors.

Level 2 *

Straightforward.  Watch out for floor spikes.  Beware of the blue potion which
will DECREASE your life count.  There is an energy expander here so don't
forget to get it.

Level 3 *

This will be one of the toughest levels.  From where you start, go to the right
and climb to the top using the center segment.  Now, you must do a jump of
faith to the right.  You will find that there is a floor when you land.  You
will also discover a step-block which will open the gate far to the left.
There is also a energy expander in the area to the right.  When you are ready,
jump on the step-block and BURN RUBBER to the left!  You will have little time
before the door starts to close.  Do a running jump over the large hole then
one final jump near the door and hang on to that ledge.  Hopefully, the door
will almost be closed so you can pull yourself up.  After that, it is very
straightfoward.  When you confront the "LIVE" skeleton, keep hitting until it
falls off the ledge.  Then climb down after it and keep hitting it until it
falls to it's doom.

Level 4 *

Very straightforward.  Watch out for loose floors and be sure to get the energy
expander.  When you confront the mirror, you will have to execute a run-jump
through it.  You will pass through but your shadow will come out the other side
and will create a lot of trouble for you.

Level 5 *

Straightforward.  There is an energy expander here but you will soon find out
what will happen to it.  You will have to experiment with this level before you
can finish it.

Level 6

Straightforward.  Beware of the master guard (he is fat) for he will slice you
up if you are not good enough.  At the end, your shadow will create mischeif
once more. . .

Level 7 *

You start out falling so press the button to grab onto the ledge.  Continue
onto the right until you reach the ledge with a large whole with another ledge
far to the right.  Climb down the ledge, fall, and grab onto the ledge.
Contine to the right.  If you can't continue, go back and fall down another
ledge for it will lead you to the same place.  When you drink the blue potion,
the room will turn purple and you will turn green.  Run off to the left and you
will float slowly down...  DO NOT go into the exit because their is an energy
expander just to the right.

Level 8

Straightforward but very hard.  Be quick but be patient for a friend of the
princess will help you.

Level 9 *

If you drink the blue potion, your vision will be distorted.  To regain
normalness, find another blue potion and drink it.  Be sure to get the energy
expander.

Level 10

You will have to knock out many ceiling and floor blocks.

Level 11 *

Very simple.  Be sure to get the energy expander.

Level 12

The last level.  I will not provide you hints because it would truly take the
fun out of the game.  You must use skill, agility, strength, courage, and trust
to get past the level.

Your probably stumped on the shadow.  Remember, your shadow cannot harm you in
anyway.  Altough it might seem to, it is really the sword that is harming you.
Just push the joystick up and you will put away your sword.  Your shadow will
mimic you of course.  Walk into your shadow and you will become one person
again.  Your shadow is mearly a reflection of yourself and hence will try mimic 
you.  Then you will need to do a jump of faith to the left.  Yeah, I know there 
is nothing there, but trust me.  You have to do a running jump and that's the
only way to make it.

Continue on and you will do battle with your final opponent, Jaffar. . .
Jaffar is an awesome fighter.  In order to beat him, you will need to use the
block-strike technique.  Also be careful of the fallen board behind you.

Enter the final door and run to the princess.

 :+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:
 :+:+: 		                			       :+:+:  
 :+:  Dark Demesnes...............................(818) 993-2870 :+:
 :+:+:  						       :+:+:
 :+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:+:
    