    _______________
    \              |           
     \            _Ä_______________  
     /            \_              /          
    /              |           __å_______   
    \______________           \     ___å_____________     
                   é___________å_________            /     
                         \             _/      _____å____________________
                          \   pRz      |       \____________            /
     PRESENTS:             \___________          /       _/           /
     01/21/95!                         é_________/        |           /       
     - - - - -                                  |         |          /   
                                                é_________         /
                                                          é________/
                     QUICK DOCS TO LEMMINGS III!                                          
                     FROM PSYGNOSIS - DMA DESIGN                                       
                     TYPED QUICKLY BY, PRIZM/LSD                                       
                     - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Controls:
---------

        Lemmings 3 is controlled entirely by mouse. As far as I know, there
are no keyboard shortcuts within the game.


Arc Screen:
-----------

        In the beginning, the first screen you see is the Arc Screen. On
this screen, you are given 8 choices. Firstly, there are three level
choices, Shadow world, Egyptian world, and Classic World. If you click any
of those three characters the game will automatically start you on that
level. Or, if you click on the door, then you are magically whisked away to
the map screen where you can click on the land of choice. If you click on
the bongo-playing lemming you are given 2 menus about sound control. If you
click on the Golden Lemming you get yourself a practice level where you can
try all sorts of devices available within the actual game. If you click on
the parchment on the barrel to the right, you can load/save a game. And
finally, if you click on the grate, you can go back to DOS.

              _______     _______    ______     ________
             /   ___å____/       \__/   __å____/    ___å_____
            /    \__     \  __/     \          \     _______/
            \_____       å__ç__     å__è   |    \___ \    /
                 \______/     é____/   é___Ä____/  \_____/  


                              Gameplay:
                              ---------


        You are playing the role of god. Your job is the save the lemmings
from 3 different lemming islands, the Classic Island, Egyptian Island, and
Shadow Island. Each island has 20 inhabitants. Your job is the guide the 20
lemmings through each level. If a lemming dies, then you have 19 left and
so on for the next level. When you run out of lemmings, the game is over,
and you must muster in self-pity for the poor little creatures.

        When the game screen begins, a trap door, will open and lemmings,
one-by-one will drop from it, and begin to walk around aimlessly. Your job
is to guide the lemmings to the exit (somewhere in the screen). Sometimes
there is more than one trap door, and sometimes there are lemmings already
present on the screen. Keep your eyes peeled.

        Many levels are larger than the screen itself, so you can scroll
around by moving the mouse either to the extreme-left side of the screen,
or extreme-right side.

        There are 90 levels all together, 30 levels on each island.


                           GOOD LUCK!

              _______     _______    ______     ________
             /   ___å____/       \__/   __å____/    ___å_____
            /    \__     \  __/     \          \     _______/
            \_____       å__ç__     å__è   |    \___ \    /
                 \______/     é____/   é___Ä____/  \_____/  


                             GAME SCREEN
                             -----------

Bottom Panel:
-------------

     On the game screen, at the bottom, you are given 9 little boxes.

û_______________________________________________________________________
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|   1   |   2   |   3   |   4   |   5   |   6   |   7   |   8   |   9   |
é_______Ä_______Ä_______Ä_______Ä_______Ä_______Ä_______Ä_______Ä_______è


1. This is the walker icon. This tells your lemming to walk if the walker
icon is selected. If the walker icon is selected, and your lemming is
walking to the right, if you click the lemming he will turn around and walk
left, and vice versa. Very nice enhancement from the first two games. If
your walker is working on a task (building, blocking, etc. See below) and
you click them with the walker icon selected, then the selected lemming
will continue to walk normally again.

2. This is the blocker icon. This changes your lemming into a tough bouncer
type, who stands still, and doesn't let anyone pass. This is an extremely
valuable tool, when you want to control the streams and streams of lemmings
coming through say, when you're building a bridge, or crossing water.

3. The is the jumper icon. This allows your Lemming to jump across small
gaps. Be careful though, as your lemming cannot travel down too far
heights, as when gravity takes affect, you could be dazzled with lemming
gore.

4. This is the brand new, never-seen-before, fabulous feature, that has not
appeared in the first two lemming games. Throughout the game levels, there
are little, square objects that your lemming can pick up. This little icons
are talents. If you select a lemming with this icon, who has a picked up a
talent, this enables the talent. For example, lets say your lemming has 
picked up a digger talent. If you select him with this icon, it will ask
you which direction you want to dig. When you've selected it, your lemming
will start digging through soil. Keep in mind that your lemmings can only
hold one talent at a time.

5. This is the talent drop icon. Fairly self-explanitory, this icon
instructs your lemming to drop the talent its picked up, thus enabling it
to pick up a different one. When the talent has been dropped, it will
appear as the icon on the screen again, and can be picked up at any time
again by any lemming.

6. This is the timer. Bit over-complicated, (why'd you not just keep a
normal clock fer christs sake) The outer ring is the counts down the
seconds, and the inner circle counts down the minutes. When you've run out
of seconds and minutes, you're dead.

7. This is the fast-forward icon. If you're waiting for your lemmings to
hurry the hell up and escape, then this is a great feature. It triples the
speed of your lemmings, kind of like a fast-forward button on a VCR. To
stop the fast-forward icon, click it again. If you're up for a challenge,
you can still play the game in fast-forward...but I'd rather not.

8. Pause icon. Self explanitory. Click it to pause the game.

9. This is the Self-destruct icon. Useful for dead-end, no solution levels.
This blows up all your lemmings, killing them slowly and painfully. You
have to double click this icon for it to take affect.




Talent Icon Info:
-----------------

        Each talent has a finite number of attempts. This means they should
be used sparingly. You can tell how many uses are left, by a little number
in the corner of the talent box. A good example of this, is the building
talent. In the corner of the building icon, is a number 8. This means your
builder can only build with up to 8 bricks. Another example is the
flotation icon. If there's a number 1, he can only float across water once.
Try again, and he will drown.




Other Controls:
---------------

-To select a lemming, click with your Left mouse-button.

-To identify a lemming with a talent, press the Right mouse-button, and he
will be highlighted in red.

-If you drag your mouse over a lemming with a talent, his talent will
appear in the talent box, in the panel at the bottom of the screen.

              _______     _______    ______     ________
             /   ___å____/       \__/   __å____/    ___å_____
            /    \__     \  __/     \          \     _______/
            \_____       å__ç__     å__è   |    \___ \    /
                 \______/     é____/   é___Ä____/  \_____/  


                        THE OPTIONS SCREEN:
                        -------------------

There are two reasons for seeing this screen. Either you finished a level,
or you just died. This screen has several options.

Progress Screen: This takes you to the map of the island, and displays your
current level, and current surviving Lemmings. You are also given three
choices, to save game, replay game, or go to the ark screen. These are
explained below.

Play Last: Play the last level again. (Useful if you're dead.) This is
nice, if you think you killed off some unnecessary lemmings, who would be
useful for the next level.

Play Next: Go to the next level. Self-explanitory.

Replay: A brilliant feature stolen from an old Psygnosis platform game
called 'The Killing Game'. It replays your last game, but you can cut in at
any time to continue and finish the level..(correctly the mistake from your
last attempt). This is great, if you can't be bother to repeat the trickery
at the beginning of the game which you pulled off successfully in the first
attempt). To cut in the replay, and continue as normal.. just press the
left mouse-button.

Save: This icon will automatically save your game to the game slot you
selected. See "Saving a game" below.

Go To Ark: Brings you to the ark screen. See above.


              _______     _______    ______     ________
             /   ___å____/       \__/   __å____/    ___å_____
            /    \__     \  __/     \          \     _______/
            \_____       å__ç__     å__è   |    \___ \    /
                 \______/     é____/   é___Ä____/  \_____/  


                           SAVING A GAME:
                           --------------

        In order to save a game, you must first go to the Ark Screen, and
select the Load/Save icon.

        In this screen, you are given 6 Game slots that you can label and
save onto. Once you've labelled your slot, you should save it, and go back
to the Ark screen, and play as normal. When you save your game, it will
save to the slot you selected earlier. To change the slot, go back to the
Load/Save screen from the ark menu, and change it. This cannot be done from
the regular options screen between levels.


              _______     _______    ______     ________
             /   ___å____/       \__/   __å____/    ___å_____
            /    \__     \  __/     \          \     _______/
            \_____       å__ç__     å__è   |    \___ \    /
                 \______/     é____/   é___Ä____/  \_____/  


                                INFO:
                                -----

The game is 4 disks in size, and takes up less than 4 megs of space
completely installed on my hardrive.

I'm running the game on an Amiga 1200, with 4 megs of RAM, and a 68882
25mhz co-processor. Something is mentioned about memory-fragmentation
preventing the game from being repeatedly played without a reboot, but I
haven't seen evidence of this, as I have loaded the game 9 times while
writing this doc, and I haven't even lost the text yet.


        Hope you enjoyed this text as
        much as I did writing it.....



                                PRIZM/LSD 1995!
                                ---------------


PS: Stay tuned for Grapevine
    #21, out shortly...

