             |  __________ _ _ __ _________ _!_ __ ____     :
             : .\___/\   å________/\__  _____|_/\___   \AnF |
             | ::\/     /     /\/    /     /\/     /    \:: |
             | ::.\__________/  \_________/  \__________/\: |
             | .: :\         \  /\        \  /\         \ \ |
             | :::.:\_________ç//\\________ç//\\_________ç/ |
             |                                              |
                             DUNE 2 - Hints
                     
                     Typed for LSD by Rodders and Tra
                          Taken from Aniga Format


THE ATTACK PLAN

When attacking, the most important building to destroy is the enemy 
Construction Facility - once you have done this they can`t replace any of the 
buildings you take out. You should also concentrate on taking out the enemy 
defence turrets before finishing off the rest of the base. Victory is almost 
assured if you destroy the Construction Facility, although the enemy usually 
has more than one in later levels.
  Until tanks become available, the Harvester is one of your most important 
weapons because it`s a tracked unit and can squash any enemy troopers or 
infantry sent to attack your base. It`s useful to have a Harvester guarding 
your base especially if you`re fighting the Harkonnens, because they like 
using Heavy Troopers which can be very difficult to destroy.

THE LAST FEW LEVELS

On the last two levels both opposing houses team up to destroy you. This isn`t 
as bad as it sounds - it just means you need to defend your base a bit more 
against the extra units the combined enemy send in.
  It also means you have to destroy two bases instead of one. You can also 
build Palaces on these levels - as can your enemies - and IX Research Centres 
which enable you to contruct special units. If you use these units well, and 
follow the attack plan, these levels are not much harder than the others.

DESTROYING ENEMY PALACES

Destroying enemy House Palaces is very hard because they`re also free for 
them to repair. You have to launch an all-out attack mainly with Missile 
Launchers and Heavy Tanks to stand a chance.
  Destroying a Palace can take some time, but you can afford to put all your 
units on to the task and provide air support with Ornithopters. In effect you 
have to damage the Palace faster than your enemy can repair it, but this can 
be done.

THE FINAL BATTLE

On this level you face the two enemy houses and the Emperor`s Elite forces. 
This level is extremely hard compared to the rest of the game and you just 
have to muddle through. The enemies are always attacking in great numbers and 
you really have to watch out for Death Hands as the Harkonnens and the Emperor 
both have them - don`t forget to save your position regularly. Keep the same 
attack plan since it`s vital to start attacking even though your base is under 
seige from the beginning.
  Use an Ornithopter to determine the position of enemy bases since they`re 
widely spread out over the opposite side of the map to you, usually to the 
North.
  Remember enemies have at least two Construction Facilities on this level 
so it`s important to hit them all. Isolate one enemy at a time and destroy 
them before moving on to the next and try to capture their factories so you 
can build the special weapons. Captured factories are often situated in 
strategic positions close to other enemies, which makes them ideal if your 
base is far away.
  It`s best to leave the Emperor`s Sarkaukar Base until last. The Sarkaukar 
have large numbers of all the standard units which have been improved to elite 
status, coloured purple. The Sarkaukar`s Troopers are hard to kill unless 
they`re run over by a tracked unit. They also have their Construction Yard 
very heavily guarded with a further Construction Yard hidden away in a corner, 
so it`s important to explore the map.
  The Sarkaukar Base is also very heavily guarded. It has a double-strength 
defensive wall around it with lots of Rocket Turrets on the perimeter. The 
best way to destroy the base is by taking its Construction Facility with a 
group of four or five Rocket Launchers sited in a destroyed enemy base, so 
the Sarkaukar cannot see them. A quick surprise attack on the Constructino 
Yard with Rocket Tanks can destroy it before the Sarkaukar can start repairs.
  Now try destroying some of the defensive turrets and other buildings, 
Rocket Tanks are extremeely useful, so keep them well protected unless you 
want them knocked out by a rogue Seige Tank.
  If your enemy starts rebuilding, then they have a secret Construction Yard 
which must be knocked out. Do this abd eventually the enemy`s defences 
collapse, leaving the Sarkaukar Palace to be destroyed. This is very hard to 
acheive, so you just have to pile all your forces on it and wait. When the 
Palace is finally destroyed you`ve completed the game and can watch the end 
sequence.
  
enD...


