
                               Gods Playguide
                               General Advice

General Advice Index

   * General Advice
   * Monsters
   * Weapons
   * Treasure
   * Potions
   * Lives

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
General Advice ...

Gods is split into four levels with each level containing three    
"worlds". There is more than one way to complete each world and
no world needs to be fully completed to finish the game. There are many
hidden puzzles and sections which do not need to be solved but which can
provide rewards. The difficulty level should gradually increase from level
one to level four. If you come across a section in the game which seems
particularly difficult to complete this may be an indication that there is
no need to complete the section to finish the game. Such difficult areas are
generally "bonus" sections which if completed will reward you with treasure.
Some worlds have "short cuts" which enable the level to be completed quickly
but you may lose out on treasure and other bonuses by taking them. It is up
to you to experiment with the game to find out what is best to do.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Monsters ...

In Gods, all monsters have attributes that define their strengths,  
weakness and behaviour. The attribute which sets how many times a
monster must be hit before it dies is called the aliens "hit point"
attribute. A weak (low hit point) monster would have perhaps ten hit points
where a stronger monster could have two hundred and fifty or more. As you
progress through the game you will notice that the monsters become more
intelligent. This means that they will be more effective at carrying out
there objectives, to either kill you, avoid you or steal treasure. In
general it is not wise to attack thieves as they are usually helpful.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
Weapons ...

Weapons also have attributes which define their behaviour and effectiveness.
The weapons "hit point" score determines how powerful it is. For example, to
kill a monster with twenty hit points would require twenty throws of a one
hit point weapon (such as a knife) or four throws of a five hit point weapon
(such as a fireball). Obviously, with weapons, the higher the "hit point"
rating the better.

A weapon can either stop when it hits a monster or travel through it.
Weapons which can travel through monsters are clearly more effective as the
weapon might do even more damage to another monster behind the first. Also
weapons which go through monsters cause more damage to each monster. This
ability of weapons should be taken into account when choosing the right
weapon. For example, in a situation where you are firing at three monsters
in a line, a throwing star (two hit points) will be much more effective than
a mace (three hit points). This is because the throwing star will do at
least two hit points damage to each alien (a total of six plus) where the
mace will only achieve three hit points damage in total. The third
characteristic which should be taken into account when selecting weapons is
whether or not the weapon collides with walls when it is thrown. Weapons
which go past walls are generally more effective and generally, the value of
the weapon reflects its usefulness.

Weapons Chart



In level 4 the power of the axe increases to 12 HP and it's value to 17500

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Treasure ...

These bonuses only apply when playing from the start of the game (level
one). If you use a password to start from another level then bonuses will be
missed equivalent to the number of levels skipped. For instance, starting at
level three, your first extra life will be at 300,000 points and your first
fire chrystal will be awarded at 400,000 points.

Treasure table



----------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
Potions ...

Correct use of potions can be helpful in completing many sections of the
game. Because you can usually only carry three items in the inventory it is
not always wise to buy too many potions in the shop as there will then be no
room for carrying other objects that may be necessary for solving the
puzzles. If you are familiar with the section of the game after the shop,
try and think ahead and plan which potions would be most useful and where
you would be most likely to use them. Then you can decide how many potions
it is safe to buy without risking having to drop a potion when you don't
want to.

 
Power Potions

Power potions are used to increase the effectiveness of weapons. Buying or
picking up a power potion increases the damage done by ALL of your weapons.
A weapon that is powered up once will have one extra hit point and fire in
two directions. A weapon that is powered up twice will have two extra hit
points and fire in three directions. After being powered up twice, weapons
continue increasing in hit points each time you get another power potion.
Small power potions power up weapons once. Large power potions power up
weapons twice. The same effect can be achieved by picking up or buying
multiples of the same weapon. For example, buying an axe and a large power
potion is the equivalent of buying three axes. Considering that power
potions effect all the weapons, they are obviously a far more economical way
of increasing weapon hit points than buying multiples of the same weapon.

Potion table



----------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
Extra lives ...

Extra lives are plentiful in Gods. They can be found in treasure rooms but
they can also be awarded for clever play and for scoring points. Extra lives
can also be given to help to a player that is doing badly.

Extra lives are awarded for points at the following milestones.

50,000 Points
160,000 Points
300,000 Points
500,000 Points

and then every 200,000 Points

Fire Crystals are also awarded for scoring points. These are given at the
following scores.

100,000 Points
250,000 Points
400,000 Points
600,000 Points

and then every 200,000 Points.
